\c 27
\p
\v 1 Moreouer the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, If any man shall make a vowe of a person vnto the Lord, by thy estimation,
\v 3 Then thy estimation shall bee thus: a male from twentie yeere olde vnto sixty yeere olde shalbe by thy estimation euen fifty shekels of siluer, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie.
\v 4 But if it be a female, then thy valuation shall be thirtie shekels.
\v 5 And from fiue yere old to twentie yere olde thy valuation shall be for the male twentie shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
\v 6 But from a moneth old vnto fiue yere old, thy price of the male shall bee fiue shekels of siluer, and thy price of the female, three shekels of siluer.
\v 7 And from sixty yeere olde and aboue, if he be a male, then thy price shalbe fifteene shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
\v 8 But if he be poorer then thou hast esteemed him, then shall hee present himselfe before the Priest, and the Priest shall value him, according to the abilitie of him that vowed, so shall the Priest value him.
\v 9 And if it be a beast, whereof men bring an offering vnto the Lord, all that one giueth of such vnto the Lord, shalbe holy.
\v 10 He shall not alter it nor change it, a good for a badde, nor a badde for a good: and if hee change beast for beast, then both this and that, which was changed for it, shall be holy.
\v 11 And if it be any vncleane beast, of which men do not offer a sacrifice vnto the Lord, hee shall then present the beast before the Priest.
\v 12 And the Priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad: and as thou valuest it, which art the Priest, so shall it bee.
\v 13 But if he will bye it againe, then hee shall giue the fift part of it more, aboue thy valuation.
\v 14 Also whe a man shall dedicate his house to be holy vnto the Lord, then the Priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad, and as ye Priest shall prise it, so shall the value be.
\v 15 But if he that sanctified it, will redeeme his house, then hee shall giue thereto the fift part of money more then thy estimation, and it shalbe his.
\v 16 If also a man dedicate to the Lord any grounde of his inheritance, then shalt thou esteeme it according to the seede therof: an Homer of barlie seede shalbe at fiftie shekels of siluer.
\v 17 If he dedicate his field immediatly from the yeere of Iubile, it shall bee worth as thou doest esteeme it.
\v 18 But if hee dedicate his fielde after the Iubile, then the Priest shall recken him the money according to ye yeeres that remaine vnto the yere of Iubile, and it shalbe abated by thy estimation.
\v 19 And if he that dedicateth it, will redeeme the fielde, then he shall put the fift parte of the price, that thou esteemedst it at, thereunto, and it shall remaine his.
\v 20 And if he will not redeeme the fielde, but the Priest sell the fielde to another man, it shalbe redeemed no more.
\v 21 But the field shalbe holy to the Lord, whe it goeth out in the Iubile, as a fielde separate from common vses: the possession thereof shall be the Priests.
\v 22 If a man also dedicate vnto ye Lord a fielde which he hath bought, which is not of the groud of his inheritance,
\v 23 Then the Priest shall set the price to him, as thou esteemest it, vnto the yeere of Iubile, and he shall giue thy price the same day, as a thing holy vnto the Lord.
\v 24 But in the yeere of Iubile, the fielde shall returne vnto him, of whome it was bought: to him, I say, whose inheritance the land was.
\v 25 And all thy valuation shall bee according to the shekel of the Sanctuarie: a shekel conteyneth twenty gerahs.
\v 26 Notwithstanding the first borne of the beastes, because it is the Lordes first borne, none shall dedicate such, be it bullocke, or sheepe; for it is the Lords.
\v 27 But if it be an vncleane beast, then he shall redeeme it by thy valuation, and giue the fift part more thereto: and if it be not redeemed, then it shalbe solde, according to thy estimation.
\v 28 Notwithstanding, nothing separate from the common vse that a man doeth separate vnto the Lord of all that he hath (whether it bee man or beast, or lande of his inheritance) may be solde nor redeemed: for euery thing separate from the common vse is most holy vnto the Lord.
\v 29 Nothing separate from the common vse, which shall be separate from man, shalbe redeemed, but dye the death.
\v 30 Also all the tithe of the lande both of the seede of the ground, and of the fruite of the trees is the Lords: it is holy to the Lord.
\v 31 But if a man will redeeme any of his tithe, he shall adde the fift part thereto.
\v 32 And euery tithe of bullock, and of sheepe, and of all that goeth vnder the rod, the tenth shalbe holy vnto the Lord.
\v 33 He shall not looke if it be good or bad, neither shall he change it: els if he change it, both it, and that it was changed withall, shalbe holy, and it shall not be redeemed.
\v 34 These are the commandements which the Lord commanded by Moses vnto the children of Israel in mount Sinai.