\c 16
\p
\v 1 And when the Sabbath day was past, Marie Magdalene, and Marie the mother of Iames, and Salome, bought sweete oyntments, that they might come, and anoynt him.
\v 2 Therefore early in the morning, the first day of the weeke, they came vnto the sepulchre, when the Sunne was nowe risen.
\v 3 And they saide one to another, Who shall rolle vs away the stone from the doore of the sepulchre?
\v 4 And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away (for it was a very great one)
\v 5 So they went into the sepulchre, and saw a yong man sitting at the right side, clothed in a long white robe: and they were sore troubled.
\v 6 But he said vnto them, Be not so troubled: ye seeke Iesus of Nazareth, which hath bene crucified: he is risen, he is not here: behold the place where they put him.
\v 7 But goe your way, and tell his disciples, and Peter, that he will goe before you into Galile: there shall ye see him, as he said vnto you.
\v 8 And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre: for they trembled, and were amased: neither said they any thing to any man: for they were afraide.
\v 9 And when Iesus was risen againe, early the first day of the weeke, he appeared first to Marie Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seuen deuils:
\v 10 And shee went and tolde them that had bene with him, which mourned and wept.
\v 11 And when they heard that he was aliue, and had appeared to her, they beleeued it not.
\v 12 After that, he appeared vnto two of them in an other forme, as they walked and went into the countrey.
\v 13 And they went, and told it to the remnant, neither beleeued they them.
\v 14 Finally, he appeared vnto the eleuen as they sate together, and reproched them for their vnbeliefe and hardnesse of heart, because they beleeued not them which had seene him, being risen vp againe.
\v 15 And he saide vnto them, Goe ye into all the worlde, and preach the Gospel to euery creature.
\v 16 He that shall beleeue and be baptized, shalbe saued: but he that will not beleeue, shalbe damned.
\v 17 And these tokens shall folowe them that beleeue, In my Name they shall cast out deuils, and shall speake with newe tongues,
\v 18 And shall take away serpents, and if they shall drinke any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them: they shall lay their handes on the sicke, and they shall recouer.
\v 19 So after ye Lord had spoken vnto them, he was receiued into heauen, and sate at the right hand of God.
\v 20 And they went foorth, and preached euery where. And the Lord wrought with them, and confirmed the worde with signes that folowed. Amen.