\c 6
\p
\v 1 And he departed thence, and came into his owne countrey, and his disciples followed him.
\v 2 And when the Sabbath was come, he began to teach in the Synagogue, and many that heard him, were astonied, and sayd, From whence hath this man these things? and what wisdome is this that is giuen vnto him, that euen such great workes are done by his hands?
\v 3 Is not this that carpenter Maries sonne, the brother of Iames and Ioses, and of Iuda and Simon? and are not his sisters here with vs? And they were offended in him.
\v 4 Then Iesus sayd vnto them, A Prophet is not without honour, but in his owne countrey, and among his owne kindred, and in his own house.
\v 5 And he could there doe no great workes, saue that hee layd his hands vpon a fewe sicke folke, and healed them,
\v 6 And he marueiled at their vnbeliefe, and went about by ye townes on euery side, teaching.
\v 7 And he called vnto him the twelue, and began to send them forth two and two, and gaue them power ouer vncleane spirits,
\v 8 And commanded them that they should take nothing for their iourney, saue a staffe onely: neither scrip, neither bread, neither money in their girdles:
\v 9 But that they should be shod with sandals, and that they should not put on two coates.
\v 10 And he sayd vnto them, Wheresoeuer ye shall enter into an house, there abide till ye depart thence.
\v 11 And whosoeuer shall not receiue you, nor heare you, when ye depart thence, shake off the dust that is vnder your feete, for a witnes vnto them. Verely I say vnto you, It shalbe easier for Sodom, or Gomorrha at the day of iudgement, then for that citie.
\v 12 And they went out, and preached, that men should amend their liues.
\v 13 And they cast out many deuils: and they anointed many that were sicke, with oyle, and healed them.
\v 14 Then King Herod heard of him (for his name was made manifest) and sayd, Iohn Baptist is risen againe from the dead, and therefore great workes are wrought by him.
\v 15 Other sayd, It is Elias, and some sayd, It is a Prophet, or as one of those Prophets.
\v 16 So when Herod heard it, he said, It is Iohn whom I beheaded: he is risen from the dead.
\v 17 For Herod him selfe had sent forth, and had taken Iohn, and bound him in prison for Herodias sake, which was his brother Philippes wife, because he had maried her.
\v 18 For Iohn sayd vnto Herod, It is not lawfull for thee to haue thy brothers wife.
\v 19 Therefore Herodias layd waite against him, and would haue killed him, but she could not:
\v 20 For Herod feared Iohn, knowing that hee was a iust man, and an holy, and reuerenced him, and when he heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly.
\v 21 But the time being conuenient, when Herod on his birth day made a banket to his princes and captaines, and chiefe estates of Galile:
\v 22 And the daughter of the same Herodias came in, and daunced, and pleased Herod, and them that sate at table together, the King sayd vnto the mayde, Aske of me what thou wilt, and I will giue it thee.
\v 23 And he sware vnto her, Whatsoeuer thou shalt aske of me, I will giue it thee, euen vnto the halfe of my kingdome.
\v 24 So she went forth, and said to her mother, What shall I aske? And she said, Iohn Baptists head.
\v 25 Then she came in straightway with haste vnto the King, and asked, saying, I would that thou shouldest giue me euen now in a charger the head of Iohn Baptist.
\v 26 Then the King was very sory: yet for his othes sake, and for their sakes which sate at table with him, he would not refuse her.
\v 27 And immediatly the King sent the hangman, and gaue charge that his head shoulde be brought in. So he went and beheaded him in the prison,
\v 28 And brought his head in a charger, and gaue it to the maide, and the maide gaue it to her mother.
\v 29 And when his disciples heard it, they came and tooke vp his body, and put it in a tombe.
\v 30 And the Apostles gathered themselues together to Iesus, and tolde him all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught.
\v 31 And he sayd vnto them, Come ye apart into the wildernes, and rest a while: for there were many commers and goers, that they had not leasure to eate.
\v 32 So they went by ship out of the way into a desart place.
\v 33 But the people sawe them when they departed, and many knewe him, and ran a foote thither out of all cities, and came thither before them, and assembled vnto him.
\v 34 Then Iesus went out, and sawe a great multitude, and had compassion on them, because they were like sheepe which had no shepheard: and he began to teach them many things.
\v 35 And when the day was nowe farre spent, his disciples came vnto him, saying, This is a desart place, and nowe the day is farre passed.
\v 36 Let them depart, that they may goe into the countrey and townes about, and buy them bread: for they haue nothing to eate.
\v 37 But he answered, and said vnto them, Giue yee them to eate. And they said vnto him, Shall we goe, and buy two hundreth peny worth of bread, and giue them to eate?
\v 38 Then he sayde vnto them, Howe many loaues haue ye? goe and looke. And when they knewe it, they sayd, Fiue, and two fishes.
\v 39 So he commanded them to make them all sit downe by companies vpon the greene grasse.
\v 40 Then they sate downe by rowes, by hundreds, and by fifties.
\v 41 And he tooke the fiue loaues, and the two fishes, and looked vp to heauen, and gaue thanks, and brake the loaues, and gaue them to his disciples to set before them, and the two fishes he deuided among them all.
\v 42 So they did all eate, and were satisfied.
\v 43 And they tooke vp twelue baskets full of the fragments, and of the fishes.
\v 44 And they that had eaten, were about fiue thousand men.
\v 45 And straightway he caused his disciples to goe into the ship, and to goe before vnto the other side vnto Bethsaida, while he sent away the people.
\v 46 Then assoone as he had sent them away, he departed into a mountaine to pray.
\v 47 And when euen was come, the ship was in the mids of the sea, and he alone on the land.
\v 48 And he saw them troubled in rowing, (for the winde was contrary vnto them) and about the fourth watch of the night, hee came vnto them, walking vpon the sea, and would haue passed by them.
\v 49 And when they saw him walking vpon the sea, they supposed it had bene a spirit, and cried out.
\v 50 For they all saw him, and were sore afrayd: but anon he talked with them, and said vnto them, Be ye of good comfort: it is I, be not afrayd.
\v 51 Then he went vp vnto them into the ship, and the winde ceased, and they were much more amased in them selues, and marueiled.
\v 52 For they had not considered the matter of the loaues, because their hearts were hardened.
\v 53 And they came ouer, and went into the land of Gennesaret, and arriued.
\v 54 So when they were come out of the ship, straightway they knewe him,
\v 55 And ran about throughout all that region round about, and began to cary hither and thither in couches all that were sicke, where they heard that he was.
\v 56 And whithersoeuer he entred into townes, or cities, or villages, they laide their sicke in the streetes, and prayed him that they might touch at the least the edge of his garment. And as many as touched him, were made whole.