\c 28
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Command the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Ye shall obserue to offer vnto me in their due season mine offering, and my bread, for my sacrifices made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto me.
\v 3 Also thou shalt say vnto them, This is the offring made by fire which ye shall offer vnto the Lord, two lambes of a yeere olde without spot, daily, for a continuall burnt offring.
\v 4 One lambe shalt thou prepare in the morning, and the other lambe shalt thou prepare at euen.
\v 5 And the tenth part of an Ephah of fine floure for a meate offering mingled with the fourth part of an Hin of beaten oyle.
\v 6 This shalbe a daily burnt offering, as was made in the mount Sinai for a sweete sauour: it is a sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord.
\v 7 And the drinke offring thereof the fourth part of an Hin for one lambe: in the holy place cause to powre the drinke offring vnto the Lord.
\v 8 And the other lambe thou shalt prepare at euen: as the meate offring of the morning, and as the drinke offering thereof shalt thou prepare this for an offring made by fire of sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 9 But on the Sabbath day ye shall offer two lambes of a yere old, without spot, and two tenth deales of fine floure for a meate offring mingled with oyle, and the drinke offring thereof.
\v 10 This is ye burnt offring of euery Sabbath, beside the continuall burnt offring, and drinke offring thereof.
\v 11 And in the beginning of your moneths, ye shall offer a burnt offring vnto the Lord, two yong bullockes, and a ramme, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde, without spot,
\v 12 And three tenth deales of fine floure for a meat offring mingled with oyle for one bullocke, and two tenth deales of fine floure for a meate offring, mingled with oyle for one ramme,
\v 13 And a tenth deale of fine floure mingled with oyle for a meate offring vnto one lambe: for a burnt offring of sweete sauour: it is an offring made by fire vnto the Lord.
\v 14 And their drinke offrings shalbe halfe an Hin of wine vnto one bullocke, and the thirde part of an Hin vnto a ram, and ye fourth part of an Hin vnto a labe: this is the burnt offring of euery moneth, throughout the moneths of the yeere.
\v 15 And one hee goat for a sinne offring vnto the Lord shalbe prepared, besides the continuall burnt offring, and his drinke offring.
\v 16 Also the fourtenth day of the first moneth is the Passeouer of the Lord.
\v 17 And in ye fiftenth day of the same moneth is the feast: seuen dayes shall vnleauened bread be eaten.
\v 18 In the first day shalbe an holy conuocation, ye shall do no seruile worke therein.
\v 19 But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offring vnto the Lord, two yong bullocks, one ram, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde: see that they be without blemish.
\v 20 And their meate offering shalbe of fine floure mingled with oyle: three tenth deales shall ye prepare for a bullocke, and two tenth deales for a ramme:
\v 21 One tenth deale shalt thou prepare for euery lambe, euen for the seuen lambes.
\v 22 And an hee goate for a sinne offering, to make an atonement for you.
\v 23 Ye shall prepare these, beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is a continuall burnt sacrifice.
\v 24 After this maner ye shall prepare throughout all the seuen dayes, for the mainteining of the offring made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord: it shall be done beside the continuall burnt offring and drinke offring thereof.
\v 25 And in ye seuenth day ye shall haue an holy conuocation, wherein ye shall do no seruile work.
\v 26 Also in the day of your first fruits, when ye bring a newe meate offring vnto the Lord, according to your weekes ye shall haue an holy conuocation, and ye shall do no seruile worke in it:
\v 27 But ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, two yong bullocks, a ramme, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde,
\v 28 And their meat offring of fine floure mingled with oyle, three tenth deales vnto a bullocke, two tenth deales to a ram,
\v 29 And one tenth deale vnto euery lambe throughout the seuen lambes,
\v 30 And an hee goate to make an atonement for you:
\v 31 (Ye shall doe this besides the continuall burnt offring, and his meate offring:) see they be without blemish, with their drinke offrings.