\c 21
\p
\v 1 Then came the principall fathers of the Leuites vnto Eleazar the Priest, and vnto Ioshua the sonne of Nun, and vnto the chiefe fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel,
\v 2 And spake vnto them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, The Lord commanded by the hande of Moses, to giue vs cities to dwell in, with the suburbes thereof for our cattell.
\v 3 So the children of Israel gaue vnto the Leuites, out of their inheritance at the commandement of the Lord these cities with their suburbes.
\v 4 And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites: and the children of Aaron ye Priest, which were of the Leuites, had by lot, out of the tribe of Iudah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Beniamin thirteene cities.
\v 5 And the rest of the children of Kohath had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh, tenne cities.
\v 6 Also the children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of ye tribe of Naphtali, and out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteene cities.
\v 7 The children of Merari according to their families had out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelue cities.
\v 8 So the children of Israel gaue by lot vnto the Leuites these cities with their suburbes, as the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses.
\v 9 And they gaue out of the tribe of the children of Iudah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeo, these cities which are here named.
\v 10 And they were the childrens of Aaron being of the families of the Kohathites, and of the sonnes of Leui, (for theirs was the first lot)
\v 11 So they gaue them Kiriath-arba of the father of Anok (which is Hebron) in the mountaine of Iudah, with the suburbes of the same round about it.
\v 12 (But the lande of the citie, and the villages thereof, gaue they to Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh to be his possession)
\v 13 Thus they gaue to the children of Aaron the Priest, a citie of refuge for the slaier, euen Hebron with her suburbes, and Libnah with her suburbes,
\v 14 And Iattir with her suburbes, and Eshtemoa, and her suburbes,
\v 15 And Holon with her suburbes, and Debir with her suburbes,
\v 16 And Ain with her suburbes, and Iuttah with her suburbes, Beth-shemesh with her suburbes: nine cities out of those two tribes.
\v 17 And out of the tribe of Beniamin they gaue Gibeon with her suburbes, Geba with her suburbes,
\v 18 Anathoth with her suburbes, and Almon with her suburbes: foure cities.
\v 19 All the cities of the children of Aaron Priests, were thirteene cities with their suburbes.
\v 20 But to the families of the children of Kohath of the Leuites, which were the rest of the children of Kohath (for the cities of their lot were out of the tribe of Ephraim)
\v 21 They gaue them the citie of refuge for the slaier, Shechem with her suburbes in mount Ephraim, and Gezer with her suburbes,
\v 22 And Kibzaim with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbes: foure cities.
\v 23 And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with her suburbes, Gibethon with her suburbes,
\v 24 Aiialon with her suburbes, Gath-rimmon with her suburbes: foure cities.
\v 25 And out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh, Tanach with her suburbes, and Gath-rimmon with her suburbes: two cities.
\v 26 All the cities for the other families of the children of Kohath were ten with their suburbes.
\v 27 Also vnto the children of Gershon of the families of the Leuites, they gaue out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh, the citie of refuge for the slaier, Golan in Bashan with her suburbes, and Beeshterah with her suburbes: two cities.
\v 28 And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishon with her suburbes, Dabereh with her suburbes,
\v 29 Iarmuth with her suburbes, En-gannim with her suburbes: foure cities.
\v 30 And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with her suburbes, Abdon with her suburbes,
\v 31 Helkah with her suburbs, and Rehob with her suburbes: foure cities.
\v 32 And out of the tribe of Naphtali, the citie of refuge for the slaier, Kedesh in Galil with her suburbes, and Hammoth-dor with her suburbes, and Kartan with her suburbes: three cities.
\v 33 Al the cities of the Gershonites according to their families, were thirteene cities with their suburbes.
\v 34 Also vnto the families of the children of Merari the rest of the Leuites, they gaue out of the tribe of Zebulun, Iokneam with her suburbs, and Kartah with her suburbes,
\v 35 Dimnah with her suburbes, Nahalal, with her suburbes: foure cities.
\v 36 And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with her suburbs, and Iahazah with her suburbs,
\v 37 Kedemoth with her suburbes, and Mephaath with her suburbes: foure cities.
\v 38 And out of the tribe of Gad they gaue for a citie of refuge for the slaier, Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbes, and Mahanaim with her suburbes,
\v 39 Heshbon with her suburbs, and Iazer with her suburbes: foure cities in all.
\v 40 So all the cities of the children of Merari according to their families (which were the rest of the families of the Leuites) were by their lot, twelue cities.
\v 41 And all the cities of the Leuites within the possession of the children of Israel, were eight and fourtie with their suburbes.
\v 42 These cities lay euery one seuerallie with their suburbes round about them: so were all these cities.
\v 43 So the Lord gaue vnto Israel all ye land, which hee had sworne to giue vnto their fathers: and they possessed it, and dwelt therein.
\v 44 Also the Lord gaue them rest rounde about according to all that hee had sworne vnto their fathers: and there stoode not a man of all their enemies before them: for the Lord deliuered all their enemies into their hand.
\v 45 There failed nothing of all the good things, which the Lord hath sayde vnto the house of Israel, but all came to passe.