\c 2
\p
\v 1 And you hath he quickened, that were dead in trespasses and sinnes,
\v 2 Wherein, in times past ye walked, according to the course of this world, and after the prince that ruleth in the aire, euen the spirite, that nowe worketh in the children of disobedience,
\v 3 Among whom we also had our conuersation in time past, in the lustes of our flesh, in fulfilling the will of the flesh, and of the minde, and were by nature the children of wrath, as well as others.
\v 4 But God which is rich in mercie, through his great loue wherewith he loued vs,
\v 5 Euen when we were dead by sinnes, hath quickened vs together in Christ, by whose grace ye are saued,
\v 6 And hath raysed vs vp together, and made vs sit together in the heauenly places in Christ Iesus,
\v 7 That he might shewe in the ages to come the exceeding riches of his grace, through his kindnesse toward vs in Christ Iesus.
\v 8 For by grace are ye saued through faith, and that not of your selues: it is the gift of God,
\v 9 Not of workes, least any man should boast himselfe.
\v 10 For we are his workemanship created in Christ Iesus vnto good workes, which God hath ordeined, that we should walke in them.
\v 11 Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, and called vncircumcision of them, which are called circumcision in the flesh, made with hands,
\v 12 That ye were, I say, at that time without Christ, and were alients from the common wealth of Israel, and were strangers from the couenants of promise, and had no hope, and were without God in the world.
\v 13 But nowe in Christ Iesus, ye which once were farre off, are made neere by the blood of Christ.
\v 14 For he is our peace, which hath made of both one, and hath broken the stoppe of the partition wall,
\v 15 In abrogating through his flesh the hatred, that is, the Lawe of commandements which standeth in ordinances, for to make of twaine one newe man in himselfe, so making peace,
\v 16 And that he might reconcile both vnto God in one body by his crosse, and slay hatred thereby,
\v 17 And came, and preached peace to you which were afarre off, and to them that were neere.
\v 18 For through him we both haue an entrance vnto the Father by one Spirit.
\v 19 Nowe therefore ye are no more strangers and forreiners: but citizens with the Saintes, and of the houshold of God,
\v 20 And are built vpon the foundation of the Apostles and Prophets, Iesus Christ himselfe being the chiefe corner stone,
\v 21 In whom all the building coupled together, groweth vnto an holy Temple in the Lord.
\v 22 In whom ye also are built together to be the habitation of God by the Spirit.