\c 14
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 This is the law of the leper in the day of his clensing: that is, he shall be brought vnto the Priest,
\v 3 And the Priest shall go out of the campe, and the Priest shall consider him: and if the plague of leprosie be healed in the leper,
\v 4 Then shall the Priest commaund to take for him that is clensed, two sparrowes aliue and cleane, and cedar wood and a skarlet lace, and hyssope.
\v 5 And the Priest shall commaund to kill one of the birdes ouer pure water in an earthen vessell.
\v 6 After, he shall take the liue sparowe with the cedar wood, and the skarlet lace, and the hyssope, and shall dip them and the liuing sparowe in the blood of the sparowe slaine, ouer the pure water,
\v 7 And hee shall sprinkle vpon him, that must be clensed of his leprosie, seuen times, and clense him, and shall let goe the liue sparowe into the broad fielde.
\v 8 Then he that shall be clensed, shall wash his clothes, and shaue off all his heare, and wash himselfe in water, so he shalbe cleane: after that shall he come into the host, but shall tary without his tent seuen dayes.
\v 9 So in the seuenth day hee shall shaue off all his heare, both his head, and his beard, and his eye browes: euen all his heare shall he shaue, and shall wash his clothes and shall wash his flesh in water: so he shalbe cleane.
\v 10 Then in the eight day he shall take two hee lambes without blemish, and an ewe lambe of a yere olde without blemish, and three tenth deales of fine flower for a meate offering, mingled with oyle, and a pint of oyle.
\v 11 And the Priest that maketh him cleane shall bring the man which is to bee made cleane, and those things, before the Lord, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 12 Then the Priest shall take one lambe, and offer him for a trespasse offering, and the pint of oyle, and shake the to and from before the Lord.
\v 13 And hee shall kill the lambe in the place where the sinne offring and the burnt offring are slaine, euen in the holy place: for as the sinne offring is the Priests, so is the trespasse offring: for it is most holy.
\v 14 So the Priest shall take of the blood of the trespasse offring, and put it vpon the lappe of the right eare of him that shalbe clensed, and vpon the thumbe of his right hand, and vpon the great toe of his right foote.
\v 15 The Priest shall also take of ye pint of oyle, and powre it into the palme of his left hand,
\v 16 And the Priest shall dip his right finger in the oyle that is in his left hand, and sprinkle of the oyle with his finger seuen times before the Lord.
\v 17 And of the rest of the oyle that is in his hand, shall the Priest put vpon the lap of the right eare of him that is to bee clensed, and vpon the thumbe of his right hand, and vpon the great toe of his right foote, where the blood of the trespasse offring was put.
\v 18 But the remnant of the oyle that is in the Priests hand, he shall powre vpon the head of him that is to be clensed: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him before the Lord.
\v 19 And the Priest shall offer the sinne offring and make an atonement for him that is to bee clensed of his vncleannesse: then after shall he kill the burnt offring.
\v 20 So the Priest shall offer ye burnt offring and the meat offring vpon ye altar and the Priest shall make an atonement for him: so he shalbe cleane.
\v 21 But if he be poore, and not able, then he shall bring one lambe for a trespasse offring to be shaken, for his reconciliation, and a tenth deale of fine flower mingled with oyle, for a meate offring, with a pinte of oyle.
\v 22 Also two turtle doues, or two yong pigeons, as he is able, whereof the one shalbe a sinne offering, and the other a burnt offring,
\v 23 And he shall bring them the eight day for his clensing vnto the Priest at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before ye Lord.
\v 24 The the Priest shall take the lambe of the trespasse offring, and the pint of oyle, and the Priest shall shake them to and from before the Lord.
\v 25 And he shall kill the lambe of the trespasse offering, and the Priest shall take of the blood of the trespasse offring, and put it vpon the lap of his right eare that is to be clensed, and vpon ye thumbe of his right hande, and vpon the great toe of his right foote.
\v 26 Also the Priest shall powre of the oyle into the palme of his owne left hand.
\v 27 So ye Priest shall with his right finger sprinkle of the oyle that is in his left hand, seuen times before the Lord.
\v 28 Then the Priest shall put of the oyle that is in his hande, vpon the lap of the right eare of him that is to bee clensed, and vpon the thumbe of his right hande, and vpon the great toe of his right foote: vpon the place of the blood of the trespasse offring.
\v 29 But ye rest of the oyle that is in the Priests hand, he shall put vpon the head of him that is to be clensed, to make an atonement for him before the Lord.
\v 30 Also hee shall present one of the turtle doues, or of the yong pigeons, as he is able:
\v 31 Such, I say, as he is able, the one for a sinne offring, and the other for a burnt offring with the meate offring: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him that is to bee clensed before the Lord.
\v 32 This is the lawe of him which hath the plague of leprosie, who is not able in his clensing to offer the whole.
\v 33 The Lord also spake vnto Moses and to Aaron, saying,
\v 34 When ye be come vnto the land of Canaan which I giue you in possession, if I sende the plague of leprosie in an house of the land of your possession,
\v 35 Then he that oweth the house, shall come and tell the Priest, saying, Me thinke there is like a plague of leprosie in the house.
\v 36 Then the Priest shall commande them to emptie the house before the Priest goe into it to see the plague, that all that is in the house be not made vncleane, and then shall the Priest goe in to see the house,
\v 37 And hee shall marke the plague: and if the plague be in the walles of the house, and that there be deepe spots, greenish or reddish, which seeme to be lower then the wall,
\v 38 Then the Priest shall goe out of the house to the doore of the house, and shall cause to shut vp the house seuen dayes.
\v 39 So the Priest shall come againe ye seuenth day: and if he see that the plague bee increased in the walles of the house,
\v 40 Then the Priest shall commande them to take away the stones wherein the plague is, and they shall cast them into a foule place without the citie.
\v 41 Also hee shall cause to scrape the house within rounde about, and powre the dust, that they haue pared off, without the citie in an vncleane place.
\v 42 And they shall take other stones, and put them in the places of those stones, and shall take other mortar, to plaister the house with.
\v 43 But if the plague come againe and breake out in the house, after that he hath taken away ye stones, and after that hee hath scraped and playstered the house,
\v 44 Then the Priest shall come and see: and if the plague growe in the house, it is a freating leprosie in the house: it is therefore vncleane.
\v 45 And hee shall breake downe the house, with the stones of it, and the timber thereof, and all the mortar of the house, and hee shall carie them out of the citie vnto an vncleane place.
\v 46 Moreouer he that goeth into the house all the while that it is shut vp, hee shall bee vncleane vntill the euen.
\v 47 Hee also that sleepeth in the house shall wash his clothes: he likewise that eateth in the house, shall wash his clothes.
\v 48 But if the Priest shall come and see, that the plague hath spread no further in the house, after the house be plaistered, the Priest shall pronounce that house cleane, for the plague is healed.
\v 49 Then shall he take to purifie the house, two sparrowes, and cedar wood, and skarlet lace, and hyssope.
\v 50 And hee shall kill one sparowe ouer pure water in an earthen vessell,
\v 51 And shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssope, and the skarlet lace with the liue Sparrow, and dip them in the blood of the slayne Sparrow, and in the pure water, and sprinkle the house seuen times:
\v 52 So shall hee clense the house with ye blood of the sparowe, and with the pure water, and with the liue sparowe, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssope, and with the skarlet lace.
\v 53 Afterwarde he shall let go the liue sparowe out of the towne into the broad fieldes: so shall he make atonement for the house, and it shall be cleane.
\v 54 This is the law for euery plague of leprosie and blacke spot,
\v 55 And of the leprosie of the garment, and of the house,
\v 56 And of the swelling, and of the skab, and of the white spot.
\v 57 This is the lawe of the leprosie to teache when a thing is vncleane, and when it is cleane.