\c 11
\p
\v 1 But there shall come a rodde foorth of the stocke of Ishai, and a grasse shall growe out of his rootes.
\v 2 And the Spirite of the Lord shall rest vpon him: the Spirite of wisedome and vnderstanding, the Spirite of counsell and strength, the Spirite of knowledge, and of the feare of the Lord,
\v 3 And shall make him prudent in the feare of the Lord: for he shall not iudge after the sight of his eies, neither reproue by ye hearing of his eares.
\v 4 But with righteousnesse shall he iudge the poore, and with equitie shall he reprooue for the meeke of the earth: and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lippes shall he slay the wicked.
\v 5 And iustice shall be ye girdle of his loynes, and faithfulnesse the girdle of his reines.
\v 6 The wolfe also shall dwell with the lambe, and the leopard shall lie with the kid, and the calfe, and the lyon, and the fat beast together, and a litle childe shall leade them.
\v 7 And the kow and the beare shall feede: their yong ones shall lie together: and the lyon shall eate strawe like the bullocke.
\v 8 And the sucking childe shall play vpon the hole of the aspe, and the wained childe shall put his hand vpon the cockatrice hole.
\v 9 Then shall none hurt nor destroy in all the mountaine of mine holines: for the earth shalbe full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters that couer the sea.
\v 10 And in that day the roote of Ishai, which shall stand vp for a signe vnto the people, the nations shall seeke vnto it, and his rest shall be glorious.
\v 11 And in the same day shall the Lord stretche out his hand againe the second time, to possesse the remnant of his people, (which shalbe left) of Asshur, and of Egypt, and of Pathros, and of Ethiopia, and of Elam, and of Shinear, and of Hamath, and of the yles of the sea.
\v 12 And he shall set vp a signe to the nations, and assemble the dispersed of Israel, and gather the scattered of Iudah from the foure corners of the worlde.
\v 13 The hatred also of Ephraim shall depart, and the aduersaries of Iudah shalbe cut off: Ephraim shall not enuie Iudah, neither shall Iudah vexe Ephraim:
\v 14 But they shall flee vpon the shoulders of the Philistims toward the West: they shall spoyle them of the East together: Edom and Moab shall be the stretching out of their hands, and the children of Ammon in their obedience.
\v 15 The Lord also shall vtterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptians sea, and with his mightie winde shall lift vp his hand ouer the riuer, and shall smite him in his seuen streames, and cause men to walke therein with shooes.
\v 16 And there shalbe a path to the remnant of his people, which are left of Asshur, like as it was vnto Israel in the day that he came vp out of the land of Egypt.