\c 7
\p
\v 1 And after that, I sawe foure Angels stand on the foure corners of the earth, holding the foure windes of the earth, that the winds should not blow on the earth, neither on the sea, neither on any tree.
\v 2 And I sawe another Angel come vp from the East, which had the seale of the liuing God, and hee cried with a loud voice to the foure Angels to who power was giuen to hurt the earth, and the sea, saying,
\v 3 Hurt ye not the earth, neither the sea, neither the trees, til we haue sealed the seruants of our God in their foreheads.
\v 4 And I heard the number of them, which were sealed, and there were sealed an hundreth and foure and fourtie thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.
\v 5 Of the tribe of Iuda were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Ruben were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelue thousande.
\v 6 Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelue thousand. Of the tribe of Nephthali were sealed twelue thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelue thousand.
\v 7 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Leui were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelue thousand. Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelue thousand.
\v 8 Of the tribe of Ioseph were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Beniamin were sealed twelue thousand.
\v 9 After these thinges I behelde, and loe a great multitude, which no man coulde number, of all nations and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stoode before the throne, and before the Lambe, clothed with long white robes, and palmes in their hands.
\v 10 And they cried with a loud voice, saying, Saluation commeth of our God, that sitteth vpon the throne, and of the Lambe.
\v 11 And all the Angels stoode rounde about the throne, and about the Elders, and the foure beastes, and they fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God,
\v 12 Saying, Amen. Praise, and glorie, and wisdom, and thankes, and honour, and power, and might bee vnto our God for euermore, Amen.
\v 13 And one of the Elders spake, saying vnto me, What are these which are araied in log white robes? and whence came they?
\v 14 And I saide vnto him, Lord, thou knowest. And he saide to me, These are they, which came out of great tribulation, and haue washed their long robes, and haue made their long robes white in the blood of the Lambe.
\v 15 Therefore are they in the presence of the throne of God, and serue him day and night in his Temple, and he that sitteth on the throne, wil dwell among them.
\v 16 They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more, neither shall the sunne light on them, neither any heate.
\v 17 For the Lambe, which is in the middes of the throne, shall gouerne them, and shall leade them vnto the liuely fountaines of waters, and God shall wipe away all teares from their eyes.