\c 7
\p
\v 1 Likewise this is the lawe of the trespasse offering, it is most holy.
\v 2 In the place where they kill the burnt offering, shall they kill the trespasse offering, and the blood thereof shall he sprinkle rounde about vpon the altar.
\v 3 All the fat thereof also shall he offer, the rumpe, and the fat that couereth the inwardes.
\v 4 After he shall take away the two kidneis, with the fat that is on them and vpon the flankes, and the kall on the liuer with the kidneis.
\v 5 Then the Priest shall burne them vpon the altar, for an offring made by fire vnto the Lord: this is a trespasse offring.
\v 6 All the males among the Priestes shall eate thereof, it shalbe eaten in the holy place, for it is most holy.
\v 7 As the sinne offring is, so is the trespasse offring, one lawe serueth for both: that wherewith the Priest shall make atonement, shalbe his.
\v 8 Also the Priest that offereth any mans burnt offring, shall haue the skinne of the burnt offring which he hath offered.
\v 9 And all the meate offring that is baken in the ouen, and that is dressed in the pan, and in the frying pan, shall be the Priestes that offereth it.
\v 10 And euery meate offering mingled with oyle, and that is dry, shall pertaine vnto all the sonnes of Aaron, to all alike.
\v 11 Furthermore, this is the lawe of the peace offrings, which he shall offer vnto the Lord.
\v 12 If he offer it to giue thankes, then he shall offer for his thankes offering, vnleauened cakes mingled with oyle, and vnleauened wafers anointed with oyle, and fine floure fryed with the cakes mingled with oyle.
\v 13 He shall offer also his offring with cakes of leauened bread, for his peace offrings, to giue thankes.
\v 14 And of all the sacrifice he shall offer one cake for an heaue offering vnto the Lord, and it shalbe the Priestes that sprinckleth the blood of the peace offrings.
\v 15 Also the flesh of his peace offerings, for thankesgiuing, shalbe eaten the same day that it is offered: he shall leaue nothing thereof vntill the morning.
\v 16 But if the sacrifice of his offring be a vow, or a free offering, it shalbe eaten the same day that he offreth his sacrifice: and so in the morning the residue thereof shalbe eaten.
\v 17 But as much of the offered flesh as remaineth vnto the third day, shalbe burnt with fire.
\v 18 For if any of the flesh of his peace offrings be eaten in the third day, he shall not be accepted that offereth it, neither shall it be reckoned vnto him, but shalbe an abomination: therefore ye person that eateth of it shall beare his iniquitie.
\v 19 The flesh also that toucheth any vncleane thing, shall not be eaten, but burnt with fire: but of this flesh all that be cleane shall eate thereof.
\v 20 But if any eate of the flesh of the peace offerings that pertaineth to the Lord, hauing his vncleannesse vpon him, euen the same person shalbe cut off from his people.
\v 21 Moreouer, whe any toucheth any vncleane thing, as the vncleannesse of man, or of an vncleane beast, or of any filthie abomination, and eate of the flesh of the peace offrings, which pertaineth vnto the Lord, euen that person shalbe cut off from his people.
\v 22 Againe ye Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 23 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, Ye shall eate no fat of beeues, nor of sheepe, nor of goates:
\v 24 Yet the fat of the dead beast, and the fat of that, which is torne with beastes, shalbe occupied to any vse, but ye shall not eate of it.
\v 25 For whosoeuer eateth the fat of the beast, of the which he shall offer an offering made by fire to the Lord, euen the person that eateth, shalbe cut off from his people.
\v 26 Neither shall ye eate any blood, either of foule, or of beast in all your dwellings.
\v 27 Euery person that eateth any blood, euen the same person shall be cut off from his people.
\v 28 And the Lord talked with Moses, saying,
\v 29 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, Hee that offereth his peace offerings vnto the Lord, shall bring his gifte vnto the Lord of his peace offerings:
\v 30 His handes shall bring the offerings of the Lord made by fire: euen the fatte with the breast shall he bring, that the breast may be shaken to and from before the Lord.
\v 31 Then the Priest shall burne the fatte vpon the Altar, and the breast shall be Aarons and his sonnes.
\v 32 And the right shoulder shall ye giue vnto the Priest for an heaue offering, of your peace offrings.
\v 33 The same that offreth the blood of ye peace offrings, and the fatte, among the sonnes of Aaron, shall haue the right shoulder for his parte.
\v 34 For the breast shaken to and from, and the shoulder lifted vp, haue I taken of the children of Israel, euen of their peace offrings, and haue giuen them vnto Aaron the Priest and vnto his sonnes by a statute for euer from among the children of Israel.
\v 35 This is the anointing of Aaron, and the anointing of his sonnes, concerning the offerings of the Lord made by fire, in the day when he presented them to serue in the Priestes office vnto the Lord.
\v 36 The which portions the Lord commanded to giue them in the day that he anointed them from among the children of Israel, by a statute for euer in their generations.
\v 37 This is also the lawe of the burnt offring of the meate offring, and of the sinne offring, and of the trespasse offring, and of the consecrations, and of the peace offrings,
\v 38 Which the Lord commanded Moses in the mount Sinai, when he commanded the children of Israel to offer their giftes vnto the Lord in the wildernesse of Sinai.