\c 4
\p
\v 1 And hee began againe to teache by the sea side, and there gathered vnto him a great multitude, so that hee entred into a shippe, and sate in the sea, and all the people was by the sea side on the land.
\v 2 And he taught them many things in parables, and said vnto them in his doctrine,
\v 3 Hearken: Beholde, there went out a sower to sowe.
\v 4 And it came to passe as he sowed, that some fell by the way side, and the foules of the heauen came, and deuoured it vp.
\v 5 And some fell on stonie grounde, where it had not much earth, and by and by sprang vp, because it had not depth of earth.
\v 6 But assoone as ye Sunne was vp, it was burnt vp, and because it had not roote, it withered away.
\v 7 And some fell among the thornes, and the thornes grewe vp, and choked it, so that it gaue no fruite.
\v 8 Some againe fell in good grounde, and did yeelde fruite that sprong vp, and grewe, and it brought foorth, some thirtie folde, some sixtie folde, and some an hundreth folde.
\v 9 Then he said vnto them, He that hath eares to heare, let him heare.
\v 10 And whe he was alone, they that were about him with the twelue, asked him of ye parable.
\v 11 And he saide vnto them, To you it is giuen to knowe the mysterie of the kingdome of God: but vnto them that are without, all thinges bee done in parables,
\v 12 That they seeing, may see, and not discerne: and they hearing, may heare, and not vnderstand, least at any time they should turne, and their sinnes should be forgiuen them.
\v 13 Againe he said vnto them, Perceiue ye not this parable? howe then should ye vnderstand all other parables?
\v 14 The sower soweth the worde.
\v 15 And these are they that receiue the seede by the wayes side, in whome the worde is sowen: but when they haue heard it, Satan commeth immediatly, and taketh away the worde that was sowen in their heartes.
\v 16 And likewise they that receiue the seede in stony ground, are they, which whe they haue heard the word, straightwayes receiue it with gladnesse.
\v 17 Yet haue they no roote in themselues, and endure but a time: for when trouble and persecution ariseth for the worde, immediatly they be offended.
\v 18 Also they that receiue the seede among the thornes, are such as heare the word:
\v 19 But the cares of this world, and the deceitfulnes of riches, and the lustes of other things enter in, and choke the word, and it is vnfruitfull.
\v 20 But they that haue receiued seede in good ground, are they that heare the worde, and receiue it, and bring foorth fruite: one corne thirtie, another sixtie, and some an hundreth.
\v 21 Also he saide vnto them, Commeth the candle in, to be put vnder a bushell, or vnder the bed, and not to be put on a candlesticke?
\v 22 For there is nothing hid, that shall not be opened: neither is there a secret, but that it shall come to light.
\v 23 If any man haue eares to heare, let him heare.
\v 24 And he said vnto them, Take heede what ye heare. With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured vnto you: and vnto you that heare, shall more be giuen.
\v 25 For vnto him that hath, shall it be giuen, and from him that hath not, shall be taken away, euen that he hath.
\v 26 Also he said, So is the kingdome of God, as if a man should cast seede in the ground,
\v 27 And shoulde sleepe, and rise vp night and day, and the seede should spring and growe vp, he not knowing howe.
\v 28 For the earth bringeth foorth fruite of it selfe, first the blade, then the eares, after that full corne in the eares.
\v 29 And assoone as the fruite sheweth it selfe, anon hee putteth in the sickle, because the haruest is come.
\v 30 He saide moreouer, Whereunto shall wee liken the kingdome of God? or with what comparison shall we compare it?
\v 31 It is like a graine of mustarde seede, which when it is sowen in the earth, is the least of all seedes that be in the earth:
\v 32 But after that it is sowen, it groweth vp, and is greatest of all herbes, and beareth great branches, so that the foules of heauen may builde vnder the shadow of it.
\v 33 And with many such parables he preached the word vnto them, as they were able to heare it.
\v 34 And without parables spake hee nothing vnto them: but he expounded all thinges to his disciples apart.
\v 35 Nowe the same day when euen was come, he saide vnto them, Let vs passe ouer vnto the other side.
\v 36 And they left the multitude, and tooke him as he was in the shippe, and there were also with him other little shippes.
\v 37 And there arose a great storme of winde, and the waues dashed into the shippe, so that it was now full.
\v 38 And he was in the sterne asleepe on a pillow: and they awoke him, and saide to him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?
\v 39 And hee rose vp, and rebuked the winde, and saide vnto the sea, Peace, and be still. So the winde ceased, and it was a great calme.
\v 40 Then he saide vnto them, Why are ye so fearefull? how is it that ye haue no faith?
\v 41 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, Who is this, that both the winde and sea obey him?