\c 1
\p
\v 1 The beginning of the Gospel of Iesus Christ, the Sonne of God:
\v 2 As it is written in the Prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
\v 3 The voyce of him that cryeth in the wildernesse is, Prepare the way of the Lord: make his paths straight.
\v 4 Iohn did baptize in the wildernesse, and preach the baptisme of amendment of life, for remission of sinnes.
\v 5 And al ye countrey of Iudea, and they of Hierusalem went out vnto him, and were all baptized of him in the riuer Iordan, confessing their sinnes.
\v 6 Nowe Iohn was clothed with camels heare, and with a girdle of a skinne about his loynes: and he did eate Locusts and wilde hony,
\v 7 And preached, saying, A stronger then I commeth after me, whose shoes latchet I am not worthy to stoupe downe, and vnloose.
\v 8 Trueth it is, I haue baptized you with water: but he will baptize you with the holy Ghost.
\v 9 And it came to passe in those dayes, that Iesus came from Nazareth, a citie of Galile, and was baptized of Iohn in Iordan.
\v 10 And assoone as he was come out of the water, Iohn saw the heauens clouen in twaine, and the holy Ghost descending vpon him like a doue.
\v 11 Then there was a voyce from heauen, saying, Thou art my beloued Sonne, in whome I am well pleased.
\v 12 And immediatly the Spirite driueth him into the wildernesse.
\v 13 And he was there in the wildernesse fourtie daies, and was tempted of Satan: hee was also with the wilde beastes, and the Angels ministred vnto him.
\v 14 Now after that Iohn was committed to prison, Iesus came into Galile, preaching the Gospel of the kingdome of God,
\v 15 And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdome of God is at hand: repent and beleeue the Gospel.
\v 16 And as he walked by the sea of Galile, he saw Simon, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, (for they were fishers.)
\v 17 Then Iesus said vnto them, Folow me, and I will make you to be fishers of men.
\v 18 And straightway they forsooke their nets, and folowed him.
\v 19 And when hee had gone a litle further thence, he sawe Iames the sonne of Zebedeus, and Iohn his brother, as they were in the ship, mending their nets.
\v 20 And anon hee called them: and they left their father Zebedeus in the shippe with his hired seruants, and went their way after him.
\v 21 So they entred into Capernaum, and straightway on the Sabbath day hee entred into the Synagogue, and taught.
\v 22 And they were astonied at his doctrine, for he taught them as one that had authoritie, and not as the Scribes.
\v 23 And there was in their Synagogue a man in whome was an vncleane spirite, and hee cried out,
\v 24 Saying, Ah, what haue we to do with thee, O Iesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy vs? I knowe thee what thou art, euen that holy one of God.
\v 25 And Iesus rebuked him, saying, Holde thy peace, and come out of him.
\v 26 And the vncleane spirit tare him, and cried with a loude voyce, and came out of him.
\v 27 And they were all amased, so that they demaunded one of another, saying, What thing is this? what newe doctrine is this? for he commandeth euen the foule spirites with authoritie, and they obey him.
\v 28 And immediatly his fame spred abroade throughout all the region bordering on Galile.
\v 29 And assoone as they were come out of the Synagogue, they entred into the house of Symon and Andrew, with Iames and Iohn.
\v 30 And Symons wiues mother lay sicke of a feuer, and anon they told him of her.
\v 31 And he came and tooke her by the hand, and lifted her vp, and the feuer forsooke her by and by, and shee ministred vnto them.
\v 32 And whe euen was come, at what time the sunne setteth, they brought to him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with deuils.
\v 33 And the whole citie was gathered together at the doore.
\v 34 And he healed many that were sicke of diuers diseases: and he cast out many deuils, and suffred not the deuils to say that they knewe him.
\v 35 And in the morning very early before day, Iesus arose and went out into a solitarie place, and there praied.
\v 36 And Simon, and they that were with him, followed carefully after him.
\v 37 And when they had found him, they sayde vnto him, All men seeke for thee.
\v 38 Then he said vnto them, Let vs go into the next townes, that I may preach there also: for I came out for that purpose.
\v 39 And hee preached in their Synagogues, throughout all Galile, and cast the deuils out.
\v 40 And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeled downe vnto him, and said to him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me cleane.
\v 41 And Iesus had compassion, and put foorth his hand, and touched him, and said to him, I wil: be thou cleane.
\v 42 And assone as he had spoken, immediatly ye leprosie departed from him, and he was made cleane.
\v 43 And after he had giue him a streight commandement, he sent him away forthwith,
\v 44 And sayde vnto him, See thou say nothing to any man, but get thee hence, and shewe thy selfe to the Priest, and offer for thy clensing those things, which Moses commanded, for a testimoniall vnto them.
\v 45 But when he was departed, hee began to tel many things, and to publish the matter: so that Iesus could no more openly enter into the citie, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from euery quarter.