\c 6
\p
\v 1 So we therefore as workers together beseech you, that ye receiue not the grace of God in vaine.
\v 2 For he sayth, I haue heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of saluation haue I succoured thee: beholde nowe the accepted time, beholde nowe the day of saluation.
\v 3 We giue no occasion of offence in any thing, that our ministerie shoulde not be reprehended.
\v 4 But in all things we approue our selues as the ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses,
\v 5 In stripes, in prisons, in tumults, in labours,
\v 6 By watchings, by fastings, by puritie, by knowledge, by long suffering, by kindnesse, by the holy Ghost, by loue vnfained,
\v 7 By the worde of trueth, by the power of God, by the armour of righteousnesse on the right hand, and on the left,
\v 8 By honour, and dishonour, by euill report, and good report, as deceiuers, and yet true:
\v 9 As vnknowen, and yet knowen: as dying, and beholde, we liue: as chastened, and yet not killed:
\v 10 As sorowing, and yet alway reioycing: as poore, and yet make many riche: as hauing nothing, and yet possessing all things.
\v 11 O Corinthians, our mouth is open vnto you: our heart is made large.
\v 12 Ye are not kept strait in vs, but ye are kept strait in your owne bowels.
\v 13 Nowe for the same recompence, I speake as to my children, Be you also inlarged.
\v 14 Be not vnequally yoked with the infidels: for what fellowship hath righteousnesse with vnrighteousnesse? and what communion hath light with darkenesse?
\v 15 And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what part hath the beleeuer with the infidell?
\v 16 And what agreement hath the Temple of God with idols? for ye are the Temple of the liuing God: as God hath said, I will dwell among them, and walke there: and I will be their God, and they shalbe my people.
\v 17 Wherefore come out from among them, and separate your selues, saith the Lord, and touch none vncleane thing, and I wil receiue you.
\v 18 And I will be a Father vnto you, and ye shalbe my sonnes and daughters, saith the Lord almightie.