\c 18
\p
\v 1 The same time the disciples came vnto Iesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdome of heauen?
\v 2 And Iesus called a litle childe vnto him, and set him in the mids of them,
\v 3 And sayd, Verely I say vnto you, except ye be conuerted, and become as litle children, ye shall not enter into the kingdome of heauen.
\v 4 Whosoeuer therefore shall humble himselfe as this litle childe, the same is the greatest in the kingdome of heauen.
\v 5 And whosoeuer shall receiue one such litle childe in my name, receiueth me.
\v 6 But whosoeuer shall offend one of these litle ones which beleeue in me, it were better for him, that a milstone were hanged about his necke, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea.
\v 7 Wo be vnto the world because of offences: for it must needes be that offences shall come, but wo be to that man by whome the offence commeth.
\v 8 Wherefore, if thy hand or thy foote cause thee to offend, cut them off, and cast them from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life, halt, or maimed, then hauing two hands, or two feete, to be cast into euerlasting fire.
\v 9 And if thine eye cause thee to offende, plucke it out, and cast it from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life with one eye, then hauing two eyes to be cast into hell fire.
\v 10 See that ye despise not one of these litle ones: for I say vnto you, that in heauen their Angels alwayes behold the face of my Father which is in heauen.
\v 11 For the Sonne of man is come to saue that which was lost.
\v 12 How thinke ye? If a man haue an hundreth sheepe, and one of them be gone astray, doeth he not leaue ninetie and nine, and go into the mountaines, and seeke that which is gone astray?
\v 13 And if so be that he finde it, verely I say vnto you, he reioyceth more of that sheepe, then of the ninetie and nine which went not astray:
\v 14 So is it not ye wil of your Father which is in heauen, that one of these litle ones should perish.
\v 15 Moreouer, if thy brother trespasse against thee, goe and tell him his fault betweene thee and him alone: if he heare thee, thou hast wonne thy brother.
\v 16 But if he heare thee not, take yet with thee one or two, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses euery worde may be confirmed.
\v 17 And if he refuse to heare them, tell it vnto the Church: and if he refuse to heare the Church also, let him be vnto thee as an heathen man, and a Publicane.
\v 18 Verely I say vnto you, Whatsoeuer ye bind on earth, shall be bound in heauen: and whatsoeuer ye loose on earth, shalbe loosed in heauen.
\v 19 Againe, verely I say vnto you, that if two of you shall agree in earth vpon any thing, whatsoeuer they shall desire, it shall be giuen them of my Father which is in heauen.
\v 20 For where two or three are gathered together in my Name, there am I in the mids of them.
\v 21 Then came Peter to him, and said, Master, howe oft shall my brother sinne against me, and I shall forgiue him? vnto seuen times?
\v 22 Iesus said vnto him, I say not to thee, Vnto seuen times, but, Vnto seuentie times seuen times.
\v 23 Therefore is the kingdome of heauen likened vnto a certaine King, which would take an account of his seruants.
\v 24 And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought vnto him, which ought him ten thousand talents.
\v 25 And because he had nothing to pay, his Lord commanded him to be solde, and his wife, and his children, and all that he had, and the dette to be payed.
\v 26 The seruant therefore fell downe, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, refraine thine anger toward me, and I will pay thee all.
\v 27 Then that seruants Lord had compassion, and loosed him, and forgaue him the dette.
\v 28 But when the seruant was departed, hee found one of his felow seruants, which ought him an hundred pence, and he layde hands on him, and thratled him, saying, Pay me that thou owest.
\v 29 Then his fellow seruant fell downe at his feete, and besought him, saying, Refraine thine anger towards me, and I will pay thee all.
\v 30 Yet he would not, but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the dette.
\v 31 And when his other felowe seruants sawe what was done, they were very sory, and came, and declared vnto their Lord all that was done.
\v 32 Then his Lord called him vnto him, and sayd to him, O euil seruant, I forgaue thee all that dette, because thou prayedst me.
\v 33 Oughtest not thou also to haue had pitie on thy fellowe seruant, euen as I had pitie on thee?
\v 34 So his Lord was wroth, and deliuered him to the tormentours, till he should pay all that was due to him.
\v 35 So likewise shall mine heauenly Father doe vnto you, except ye forgiue from your hearts, eche one to his brother their trespasses.