\c 24
\p
\v 1 And Iesus went out, and departed from the Temple, and his disciples came to him, to shewe him the building of the Temple.
\v 2 And Iesus sayd vnto them, See ye not all these things? Verely I say vnto you, there shall not be here left a stone vpon a stone, that shall not be cast downe.
\v 3 And as he sate vpon the mount of Oliues, his disciples came vnto him apart, saying, Tell vs when these things shall be, and what signe shalbe of thy comming, and of the ende of the world.
\v 4 And Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, Take heede that no man deceiue you.
\v 5 For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceiue many.
\v 6 And ye shall heare of warres, and rumours of warres: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to passe, but the end is not yet.
\v 7 For nation shall rise against nation, and realme against realme, and there shalbe famine, and pestilence, and earthquakes in diuers places.
\v 8 All these are but ye beginning of sorowes.
\v 9 Then shall they deliuer you vp to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my Names sake.
\v 10 And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another.
\v 11 And many false prophets shall arise, and shall deceiue many.
\v 12 And because iniquitie shalbe increased, the loue of many shalbe colde.
\v 13 But he that endureth to the ende, he shalbe saued.
\v 14 And this Gospel of the kingdome shalbe preached through the whole world for a witnes vnto all nations, and then shall the end come.
\v 15 When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the Prophet, set in the holy place (let him that readeth consider it.)
\v 16 Then let them which be in Iudea, flee into the mountaines.
\v 17 Let him which is on the house top, not come downe to fetch any thing out of his house.
\v 18 And he that is in the fielde, let not him returne backe to fetch his clothes.
\v 19 And woe shalbe to them that are with childe, and to them that giue sucke in those dayes.
\v 20 But pray that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day.
\v 21 For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not from the beginning of the worlde to this time, nor shalbe.
\v 22 And except those dayes should be shortened, there should no flesh be saued: but for the elects sake those dayes shalbe shortened.
\v 23 Then if any shall say vnto you, Loe, here is Christ, or there, beleeue it not.
\v 24 For there shall arise false Christes, and false prophets, and shall shewe great signes and wonders, so that if it were possible, they should deceiue the very elect.
\v 25 Beholde, I haue tolde you before.
\v 26 Wherefore if they shall say vnto you, Beholde, he is in the desert, goe not forth: Beholde, he is in the secret places, beleeue it not.
\v 27 For as the lightning commeth out of the East, and is seene into the West, so shall also the comming of the Sonne of man be.
\v 28 For wheresoeuer a dead carkeis is, thither will the Egles be gathered together.
\v 29 And immediatly after ye tribulations of those dayes, shall the sunne be darkened, and the moone shall not giue her light, and the starres shall fal from heauen, and ye powers of heaue shalbe shake.
\v 30 And then shall appeare the signe of the Sonne of man in heauen: and then shall all the kinreds of the earth mourne, and they shall see the Sonne of man come in the cloudes of heauen with power and great glorie.
\v 31 And he shall send his Angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect, from the foure windes, and from the one ende of the heauens vnto the other.
\v 32 Now learne the parable of the figge tree: when her bough is yet tender, and it putteth foorth leaues, ye knowe that sommer is neere.
\v 33 So likewise ye, when ye see all these things, know that the kingdom of God is neere, eue at ye doores.
\v 34 Verely I say vnto you, this generation shall not passe, till all these things be done.
\v 35 Heauen and earth shall passe away: but my wordes shall not passe away.
\v 36 But of that day and houre knoweth no man, no not the Angels of heauen, but my father only.
\v 37 But as the dayes of Noe were, so likewise shall the comming of the Sonne of man be.
\v 38 For as in the dayes before the flood, they did eate and drinke, marrie, and giue in mariage, vnto the day that Noe entred into the Arke,
\v 39 And knewe nothing, till the flood came, and tooke them all away, so shall also the comming of the Sonne of man be.
\v 40 Then two shall be in the fieldes, the one shalbe receiued, and the other shalbe refused.
\v 41 Two women shalbe grinding at ye mill: the one shalbe receiued, and the other shalbe refused.
\v 42 Watch therefore: for ye knowe not what houre your master will come.
\v 43 Of this be sure, that if the good man of the house knewe at what watch the thiefe would come, he woulde surely watch, and not suffer his house to be digged through.
\v 44 Therefore be ye also ready: for in the houre that ye thinke not, will the Sonne of man come.
\v 45 Who then is a faithfull seruaunt and wise, whom his master hath made ruler ouer his household, to giue them meate in season?
\v 46 Blessed is that seruant, whom his master when he commeth, shall finde so doing.
\v 47 Verely I say vnto you, he shall make him ruler ouer all his goods.
\v 48 But if that euil seruant shall say in his heart, My master doth deferre his comming,
\v 49 And begin to smite his fellowes, and to eate, and to drinke with the drunken,
\v 50 That seruaunts master will come in a day, when he looketh not for him, and in an houre that he is not ware of,
\v 51 And will cut him off, and giue him his portion with hypocrites: there shalbe weeping, and gnashing of teeth.