\c 26
\p
\v 1 Ye shall make you none idoles nor grauen image, neither reare you vp any pillar, neither shall ye set any image of stone in your land to bow downe to it: for I am the Lord your God.
\v 2 Ye shall keepe my Sabbaths, and reuerence my Sanctuarie: I am the Lord.
\v 3 If ye walke in mine ordinances, and keepe my commandements, and doe them,
\v 4 I will then sende you raine in due season, and the land shall yelde her increase, and the trees of the fielde shall giue her fruite.
\v 5 And your threshing shall reache vnto the vintage, and the vintage shall reache vnto sowing time, and you shall eate your bread in plenteousnesse, and dwell in your land safely.
\v 6 And I will sende peace in the land, and ye shall sleepe and none shall make you afraid: also I will rid euill beastes out of the lande, and the sworde shall not go through your lande.
\v 7 Also ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you vpon the sworde.
\v 8 And fiue of you shall chase an hundreth, and an hundreth of you shall put ten thousande to flight, and your enemies shall fall before you vpon the sworde.
\v 9 For I will haue respect vnto you, and make you encrease, and multiplie you, and establish my couenant with you.
\v 10 Ye shall eate also olde store, and cary out olde because of the newe.
\v 11 And I will set my Tabernacle among you, and my soule shall not lothe you.
\v 12 Also I will walke among you, and I wil be your God, and ye shalbe my people.
\v 13 I am the Lord your God which haue brought you out of the lande of Egypt, that yee should not be their bondmen, and I haue broken ye bonds of your yoke, and made you goe vpright.
\v 14 But if ye will not obey me, nor do all these commandements,
\v 15 And if ye shall despise mine ordinances, either if your soule abhorre my lawes, so that yee will not do all my commandements, but breake my couenant,
\v 16 Then wil I also do this vnto you, I wil appoint ouer you fearefulnes, a consumption, and the burning ague to consume the eyes, and make the heart heauie, and you shall sowe your seede in vaine: for your enemies shall eate it:
\v 17 And I will set my face against you, and ye shall fal before your enemies, and they that hate you, shall raigne ouer you, and yee shall flee when none pursueth you.
\v 18 And if ye wil not for these things obey me, then wil I punish you seuen times more, according to your sinnes,
\v 19 And I wil breake the pride of your power, and I will make your heauen as yron, and your earth as brasse:
\v 20 And your strength shalbe spent in vaine: neither shall your lande giue her increase, neither shall the trees of the land giue their fruite.
\v 21 And if ye walke stubburnly against me, and will not obey mee, I will then bring seuen times more plagues vpon you, according to your sinnes.
\v 22 I will also sende wilde beastes vpon you, which shall spoyle you, and destroy your cattell, and make you fewe in number: so your hye waies shalbe desolate.
\v 23 Yet if by these ye will not be reformed by me, but walke stubburnly against me,
\v 24 Then wil I also walke stubburnly against you, and I will smite you yet seuen times for your sinnes:
\v 25 And I wil send a sword vpon you, that shall auenge the quarel of my couenant: and when ye are gathered in your cities, I wil send the pestilence among you, and ye shall be deliuered into the hand of the enemie.
\v 26 When I shall breake the staffe of your bread, then ten women shall bake your breade in one ouen, and they shall deliuer your bread againe by weight, and ye shall eate, but not be satisfied.
\v 27 Yet if ye will not for this obey mee, but walke against me stubburnly,
\v 28 Then will I walke stubburnly in mine anger against you, and I will also chastice you seuen times more according to your sinnes.
\v 29 And ye shall eate ye flesh of your sonnes, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye deuoure.
\v 30 I will also destroy your hye places, and cut away your images, and cast your carkeises vpon the bodies of your idoles, and my soule shall abhorre you.
\v 31 And I will make your cities desolate, and bring your Sanctuarie vnto nought, and will not smelll the sauour of your sweete odours.
\v 32 I will also bring the land vnto a wildernes, and your enemies, which dwell therein, shalbe astonished thereat.
\v 33 Also I wil scatter you among the heathen, and will drawe out a sworde after you, and your land shalbe waste, and your cities shalbe desolate.
\v 34 Then shall the land inioy her Sabbaths, as long as it lieth voide, and yee shalbe in your enemies land: then shall the land rest, and enioy her Sabbaths.
\v 35 All the dayes that it lieth voide, it shall rest, because it did not rest in your Sabbaths, when ye dwelt vpon it.
\v 36 And vpon them that are left of you, I will send euen a faintnes into their hearts in ye land of their enemies, and the sounde of a leafeshaken shall chase them, and they shall flee as fleeing from a sword, and they shall fall, no man pursuing them.
\v 37 They shall fall also one vpon another, as before a sword, though none pursue them, and ye shall not be able to stand before your enemies:
\v 38 And ye shall perish among the heathen, and the land of your enemies shall eate you vp.
\v 39 And they that are left of you, shall pine away for their iniquitie, in your enemies landes, and for the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them also.
\v 40 Then they shall confesse their iniquitie, and the wickednes of their fathers for their trespasse, which they haue trespassed against mee, and also because they haue walked stubburnly against me.
\v 41 Therefore I wil walke stubburnly against them, and bring them into the land of their enemies: so then their vncircumcised hearts shalbe humbled, and then they shalt willingly beare the punishment of their iniquitie.
\v 42 Then I will remember my couenant with Iaakob, and my couenant also with Izhak, and also my couenant with Abraham will I remember, and will remember the land.
\v 43 The land also in the meane season shalbe left of them, and shall enioye her Sabbaths while she lieth waste without them, but they shall willingly suffer the punishment of their iniquitie, because they despised my lawes, and because their soule abhorred mine ordinances.
\v 44 Yet notwithstanding this, when they shalbe in the lande of their enemies, I wil not cast them away, neither will I abhorre them, to destroy them vtterly, nor to breake my couenant with them: for I am the Lord their God:
\v 45 But I will remember for them the couenant of olde when I brought them out of ye land of Egypt in the sight of the heathen that I might be their God: I am the Lord.
\v 46 These are the ordinances, and the iudgements, and the lawes, which the Lord made betweene him, and the children of Israel in mount Sinai, by the hand of Moses.