\c 34
\p
\v 1 Then Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare vnto Iaakob, went out to see the daughters of that countrey.
\v 2 Whome when Shechem the sonne of Hamor the Hiuite lorde of that countrey sawe, hee tooke her, and lay with her, and defiled her.
\v 3 So his heart claue vnto Dinah the daughter of Iaakob: and he loued the maide, and spake kindely vnto the maide.
\v 4 Then said Shechem to his father Hamor, saying, Get me this maide to wife.
\v 5 (Nowe Iaakob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter, and his sonnes were with his cattell in the fielde: therefore Iaakob helde his peace, vntill they were come.)
\v 6 Then Hamor the father of Shechem went out vnto Iaakob to commune with him.
\v 7 And whe the sonnes of Iaakob were come out of the fielde and heard it, it grieued the men, and they were very angry, because he had wrought villenie in Israel, in that he had lyen with Iaakobs daughter: which thing ought not to be done.
\v 8 And Hamor communed with them, saying, the soule of my sonne Shechem longeth for your daughter: giue her him to wife, I pray you.
\v 9 So make affinitie with vs: giue your daughters vnto vs, and take our daughters vnto you,
\v 10 And ye shall dwell with vs, and the lande shalbe before you: dwell, and doe your businesse in it, and haue your possessions therein.
\v 11 Shechem also said vnto her father and vnto her brethren, Let me finde fauour in your eyes, and I will giue whatsoeuer ye shall appoint me.
\v 12 Aske of me abundantly both dowrie and giftes, and I will giue as ye appoint me, so that ye giue me the maide to wife.
\v 13 Then the sonnes of Iaakob answered Shechem and Hamor his father, talking deceitfully, because he had defiled Dinah their sister,
\v 14 And they said vnto them, We can not do this thing, to giue our sister to an vncircumcised man: for that were a reproofe vnto vs.
\v 15 But in this will we consent vnto you, if ye will be as we are, that euery man childe among you be circumcised:
\v 16 Then will we giue our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to vs, and will dwell with you, and be one people.
\v 17 But if ye will not hearken vnto vs to be circumcised, then will we take our daughter and depart.
\v 18 Nowe their wordes pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamors sonne.
\v 19 And the yong man deferd not to doe the thing because he loued Iaakobs daughter: he was also the most set by of all his fathers house.
\v 20 Then Hamor and Shechem his Sonne went vnto the gate of their citie, and communed with the men of their citie, saying,
\v 21 These men are peaceable with vs: and that they may dwell in the land, and doe their affaires therin (for behold, the land hath roume ynough for them) let vs take their daughters to wiues, and giue them our daughters.
\v 22 Onely herein will the men consent vnto vs for to dwell with vs, and to be one people, if all the men children among vs be circumcised as they are circumcised.
\v 23 Shall not their flockes and their substance and all their cattell be ours? onely let vs consent herein vnto them, and they will dwell with vs.
\v 24 And vnto Hamor, and Shechem his sonne hearkened all that went out of the gate of his citie: and all the men children were circumcised, euen all that went out of the gate of his citie.
\v 25 And on the thirde day (when they were sore) two of the sonnes of Iaakob, Simeon and Leui, Dinahs brethren tooke either of them his sworde and went into the citie boldly, and slue euery male.
\v 26 They slewe also Hamor and Shechem his sonne with the edge of the sword, and tooke Dinah out of Shechems house, and went their way.
\v 27 Againe the other sonnes of Iaakob came vpon the dead, and spoyled the citie, because they had defiled their sister.
\v 28 They tooke their sheepe and their beeues, and their asses, and whatsoeuer was in the citie, and in the fieldes.
\v 29 Also they caryed away captiue and spoyled all their goods, and all their children and their wiues, and all that was in the houses.
\v 30 Then Iaakob said to Simeon and Leui, Ye haue troubled me, and made me stinke among the inhabitats of the land, aswell the Canaanites, as the Perizzites, and and I being few in nomber, they shall gather theselues together against me, and slay me, and so shall I, and my house be destroied.
\v 31 And they answered, Shoulde hee abuse our sister as a whore?