\c 14
\p
\v 1 Followe after loue, and couet spirituall giftes, and rather that ye may prophecie.
\v 2 For hee that speaketh a strange tongue, speaketh not vnto men, but vnto God: for no man heareth him: howbeit in the spirit he speaketh secret things.
\v 3 But he that prophecieth, speaketh vnto me to edifying, and to exhortation, and to comfort.
\v 4 He that speaketh strange language, edifieth himselfe: but hee that prophecieth, edifieth the Church.
\v 5 I would that ye all spake strange languages, but rather that ye prophecied: for greater is hee that prophecieth, then hee that speaketh diuers tongues, except hee expound it, that the Church may receiue edification.
\v 6 And nowe, brethren, if I come vnto you speaking diuers tongues, what shall I profite you, except I speake to you, either by reuelation, or by knowledge, or by prophecying, or by doctrine?
\v 7 Moreouer things without life which giue a sounde, whether it be a pipe or an harpe, except they make a distinction in the soundes, how shall it be knowen what is piped or harped?
\v 8 And also if the trumpet giue an vncertaine sound, who shall prepare himselfe to battell?
\v 9 So likewise you, by the tongue, except yee vtter wordes that haue signification, howe shall it be vnderstand what is spoken? for ye shall speake in the ayre.
\v 10 There are so many kindes of voyces (as it commeth to passe) in the world, and none of them is dumme.
\v 11 Except I know then the power of ye voyce, I shall be vnto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh, shalbe a barbarian vnto me.
\v 12 Euen so, forasmuch as ye couet spirituall giftes, seeke that ye may excell vnto the edifying of the Church.
\v 13 Wherefore, let him that speaketh a strange tongue, pray, that he may interprete.
\v 14 For if I pray in a strange togue, my spirit prayeth: but mine vnderstading is without fruite.
\v 15 What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, but I wil pray with the vnderstanding also: I wil sing with the spirite, but I will sing with the vnderstanding also.
\v 16 Else, when thou blessest with the spirit, howe shall hee that occupieth the roome of the vnlearned, say Amen, at thy giuing of thankes, seeing he knoweth not what thou sayest?
\v 17 For thou verely giuest thankes well, but the other is not edified.
\v 18 I thanke my God, I speake languages more then ye all.
\v 19 Yet had I rather in the Church to speake fiue wordes with mine vnderstanding, that I might also instruct others, then ten thousande wordes in a strange tongue.
\v 20 Brethren, be not children in vnderstanding, but as concerning maliciousnes be children, but in vnderstanding be of a ripe age.
\v 21 In the Lawe it is written, By men of other tongues, and by other languages will I speake vnto this people: yet so shall they not heare me, sayth the Lord.
\v 22 Wherefore strange tongues are for a signe, not to them that beleeue, but to them that beleeue not: but prophecying serueth not for them that beleeue not, but for them which beleeue.
\v 23 If therefore when the whole Church is come together in one, and all speake strange tongues, there come in they that are vnlearned, or they which beleeue not, will they not say, that ye are out of your wittes?
\v 24 But if all prophecie, and there come in one that beleeueth not, or one vnlearned, hee is rebuked of all men, and is iudged of all,
\v 25 And so are the secrets of his heart made manifest, and so he will fall downe on his face and worship God, and say plainely that God is in you in deede.
\v 26 What is to be done then, brethren? when ye come together, according as euery one of you hath a Psalme, or hath doctrine, or hath a tongue, or hath reuelation, or hath interpretation, let all things be done vnto edifying.
\v 27 If any man speake a strange tongue, let it be by two, or at the most, by three, and that by course, and let one interprete.
\v 28 But if there be no interpreter, let him keepe silence in the Church, which speaketh languages, and let him speake to himselfe, and to God.
\v 29 Let the Prophets speake two, or three, and let the other iudge.
\v 30 And if any thing be reueiled to another that sitteth by, let the first holde his peace.
\v 31 For ye may all prophecie one by one, that all may learne, and all may haue comfort.
\v 32 And the spirits of the Prophets are subiect to the Prophets.
\v 33 For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as we see in all ye Churches of the Saints.
\v 34 Let your women keepe silence in the Churches: for it is not permitted vnto them to speake: but they ought to be subiect, as also the Lawe sayth.
\v 35 And if they will learne any thing, let them aske their husbands at home: for it is a shame for women to speake in the Church.
\v 36 Came the worde of God out from you? either came it vnto you onely?
\v 37 If any man thinke him selfe to be a Prophet, or spirituall, let him acknowledge, that the things, that I write vnto you, are the commandements of the Lord.
\v 38 And if any man be ignorant, let him be ignorant.
\v 39 Wherefore, brethren, couet to prophecie, and forbid not to speake languages.
\v 40 Let all things be done honestly, and by order.