\c 9
\p
\v 1 And the fifth Angel blew the trumpet, and I saw a starre fall from heauen vnto the earth, and to him was giuen the key of the bottomlesse pit.
\v 2 And he opened the bottomlesse pit, and there arose the smoke of the pit, as the smoke of a great fornace, and the sunne, and the ayre were darkened by the smoke of the pit.
\v 3 And there came out of the smoke Locustes vpon the earth, and vnto them was giuen power, as the scorpions of the earth haue power.
\v 4 And it was comanded them, that they should not hurt the grasse of the earth, neither any greene thing, neither any tree: but onely those men which haue not the seale of God in their foreheads.
\v 5 And to them was comanded that they should not kill them, but that they should be vexed fiue moneths, and that their paine should be as the paine that commeth of a scorpion, when he hath stung a man.
\v 6 Therefore in those dayes shall men seeke death, and shall not finde it, and shall desire to die, and death shall flie from them.
\v 7 And the forme of the locustes was like vnto horses prepared vnto battel, and on their heads were as it were crownes, like vnto golde, and their faces were like the faces of men.
\v 8 And they had heare as the heare of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lyons.
\v 9 And they had habbergions, like to habbergions of yron: and the soud of their wings was like the sound of charets whe many horses runne vnto battel.
\v 10 And they had tailes like vnto scorpions, and there were stings in their tailes, and their power was to hurt men fiue moneths.
\v 11 And they haue a King ouer them, which is the Angel of the bottomlesse pit, whose name in Hebrewe is Abaddon, and in Greeke he is named Apollyon, that is, destroying.
\v 12 One woe is past, and beholde, yet two woes come after this.
\v 13 Then the sixt Angel blew the trumpet, and I heard a voyce from the foure hornes of the golden altar, which is before God,
\v 14 Saying to the sixt Angel, which had the trumpet, Loose the foure Angels, which are bound in the great riuer Euphrates.
\v 15 And the foure Angels were loosed, which were prepared at an houre, at a day, at a moneth, and at a yeere, to slay the thirde part of men.
\v 16 And the nomber of horsemen of warre were twentie thousand times ten thousand: for I heard the nomber of them.
\v 17 And thus I saw the horses in a vision, and them that sate on them, hauing firie habbergions, and of Iacinth, and of brimstone, and the heads of the horses were as the heades of lyons: and out of their mouthes went foorth fire and smoke and brimstone.
\v 18 Of these three was the thirde part of men killed, that is, of the fire, and of the smoke, and of the brimstone, which came out of their mouthes.
\v 19 For their power is in their mouths, and in their tailes: for their tailes were like vnto serpents, and had heades, wherewith they hurt.
\v 20 And the remnant of the men which were not killed by these plagues, repented not of the works of their handes that they should not worship deuils, and idoles of golde and of siluer, and of brasse, and of stone, and of wood, which neither can see, neither heare nor goe.
\v 21 Also they repented not of their murder, and of their sorcerie, neither of their fornication, nor of their theft.