\c 15
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Whe ye be come into the land of your habitations, which I giue vnto you,
\v 3 And will make an offring by fire vnto the Lord, a burnt offring or a sacrifice to fulfil a vowe, or a free offring, or in your feastes, to make a sweete sauour vnto the Lord of the hearde, or of the flocke.
\v 4 Then let him that offreth his offring vnto the Lord, bring a meate offring of a tenth deale of fine flowre, mingled with the fourth part of an Hin of oyle.
\v 5 Also thou shalt prepare ye fourth part of an Hin of wine to be powred on a lambe, appointed for the burnt offring or any offring.
\v 6 And for a ram, thou shalt for a meat offring, prepare two tenth deales of fine floure, mingled with the third part of an Hin of oyle.
\v 7 And for a drinke-offering, thou shalt offer the third part of an Hin of wine, for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 8 And when thou preparest a bullocke for a burnt offring, or for a sacrifice to fulfill a vowe or a peace offring to the Lord,
\v 9 Then let him offer with ye bullocke a meate offring of three tenth deales of fine floure, mingled with halfe an Hin of oyle.
\v 10 And thou shalt bring for a drinke offring halfe an Hin of wine, for an offring made by fire of a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 11 Thus shall it be done for a bullocke, or for a ram, or for a lambe, or for a kid.
\v 12 According to the nomber that yee prepare to offer, so shall yee doe to euery one according to their nomber.
\v 13 All that are borne of the countrey, shall do these things thus, to offer an offring made by fire of sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 14 And if a stranger soiourne with you, or whosoeuer bee among you in your generations, and will make an offring by fire of a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, as ye do, so hee shall doe.
\v 15 One ordinance shalbe both for you of the Congregation, and also for the stranger that dwelleth with you, euen an ordinance for euer in your generations: as you are, so shall the stranger bee before the Lord.
\v 16 One Lawe and one maner shall serue both for you and for the stranger that soiourneth with you.
\v 17 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 18 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When ye be come into the lande, to the which I bring you,
\v 19 And when ye shall eate of the bread of the land, ye shall offer an heaue offring vnto ye Lord.
\v 20 Ye shall offer vp a cake of the first of your dowe for an heaue offring: as the heaue offring of the barne, so ye shall lift it vp.
\v 21 Of the first of your dowe ye shall giue vnto the Lord an heaue offring in your generations.
\v 22 And if ye haue erred, and not obserued all these commandements, which the Lord hath spoken vnto Moses,
\v 23 Euen all that the Lord hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the first day that the Lord commanded Moses, and hence forward among your generations:
\v 24 And if so be that ought be committed ignorantly of the Congregation, then all ye Congregatio shall giue a bullocke for a burnt offring, for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, with the meat offring and drinke offring thereto, according to the maner, and an hee goate for a sinne offring.
\v 25 And the Priest shall make an atonement for al the Congregation of the children of Israel, and it shalbe forgiuen them: for it is ignorance: and they shall bring their offring for an offring made by fire vnto the Lord, and their sinne offering before the Lord for their ignorance.
\v 26 Then it shalbe forgiuen all the Congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger that dwelleth among them: for all the people were in ignorance.
\v 27 But if any one person sinne through ignorance, then he shall bring a shee goate of a yeere olde for a sinne offring.
\v 28 And the Priest shall make an atonement for the ignorant person, when hee sinneth by ignorance before the Lord, to make reconciliation for him: and it shalbe forgiuen him.
\v 29 He that is borne among the children of Israel, and the stranger that dwelleth among them, shall haue both one lawe, who so doth sinne by ignorance.
\v 30 But the person that doeth ought presumptuously, whether he be borne in the land, or a stranger, the same blasphemeth the Lord: therefore that person shalbe cut off from among his people,
\v 31 Because he hath despised the worde of the Lord, and hath broken his commandement: that person shalbe vtterly cut off: his iniquitie shalbe vpon him.
\v 32 And while the children of Israel were in the wildernesse, they found a man that gathered stickes vpon the Sabbath day.
\v 33 And they that found him gathering sticks, brought him vnto Moses and to Aaron, and vnto all the Congregation,
\v 34 And they put him warde: for it was not declared what should be done vnto him.
\v 35 Then the Lord said vnto Moses, This man shall dye the death: and let al the multitude stone him with stones without the hoste.
\v 36 And all the Congregation brought him without the hoste, and stoned him with stones, and he died, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 37 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 38 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes vpon the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and put vpon the fringes of the borders a ryband of blewe silke.
\v 39 And ye shall haue the fringes, that when ye looke vpon them, ye may remember all the commandemets of the Lord, and do them: and that ye seeke not after your own heart, nor after your owne eyes, after the which ye go a whoring;
\v 40 That yee may remember and doe all my commandements, and bee holy vnto your God.
\v 41 I am the Lord your God, which brought you out of the lande of Egypt, to bee your God: I am the Lord your God.