\c 29
\p
\v 1 Moreouer Dauid the King sayde vnto all the Congregation, God hath chosen Salomon mine onely sonne yong and tender, and the worke is great: for this house is not for man, but for the Lord God.
\v 2 Now I haue prepared with all my power for the house of my God, golde for vessels of golde, and siluer for them of siluer, and brasse for things of brasse, yron for things of yron, and wood for things of wood, and onix stones, and stones to be set, and carbuncle stones and of diuers colours, and all precious stones, and marble stones in aboundance.
\v 3 Moreouer, because I haue delite in the house of my God, I haue of mine owne golde and siluer, which I haue giuen to the house of my God, beside all that I haue prepared for the house of the Sanctuarie,
\v 4 Euen three thousand talents of gold of the golde of Ophir, and seuen thousand talents of fined siluer to ouerlay the walles of the houses.
\v 5 The golde for the things of golde, and the siluer for things of siluer, and for all the worke by the handes of artificers: and who is willing to fill his hand to day vnto the Lord?
\v 6 So the princes of the families, and the princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captaines of thousands and of hundreths, with the rulers of the Kings worke, offred willingly,
\v 7 And they gaue for the seruice of the house of God fiue thousande talents of golde, and ten thousand pieces, and ten thousand talents of siluer, and eighteene thousand talents of brasse, and one hundreth thousand talents of yron.
\v 8 And they with whom precious stones were found, gaue them to the treasure of ye house of the Lord, by the hand of Iehiel the Gershunnite.
\v 9 And the people reioyced when they offred willingly: for they offred willingly vnto ye Lord, with a perfite heart. And Dauid the King also reioyced with great ioy.
\v 10 Therefore Dauid blessed the Lord before all the Congregation, and Dauid sayde, Blessed be thou, O Lord God, of Israel our father, for euer and euer.
\v 11 Thine, O Lord, is greatnesse and power, and glory, and victorie and praise: for all that is in heauen and in earth is thine: thine is the kingdome, O Lord, and thou excellest as head ouer all.
\v 12 Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reignest ouer all, and in thine hand is power and strength, and in thine hande it is to make great, and to giue strength vnto all.
\v 13 Now therefore our God, we thanke thee, and prayse thy glorious Name.
\v 14 But who am I, and what is my people, that we shoulde be able to offer willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee: and of thine owne hand we haue giuen thee.
\v 15 For we are stragers before thee, and soiourners, like all our fathers: our dayes are like ye shadowe vpon the earth, and there is none abiding.
\v 16 O Lord our God, all this abundance that we haue prepared to buylde thee an house for thine holy Name, is of thine hand and all is thine.
\v 17 I knowe also, my God, that thou tryest the heart, and hast pleasure in righteousnesse: I haue offred willingly in the vprightnesse of mine heart all these things: now also haue I seene thy people which are found here, to offer vnto thee willingly with ioy.
\v 18 O Lord God of Abraham, Izhak and Israel our fathers, keepe this for euer in the purpose, and the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their hearts vnto thee.
\v 19 And giue vnto Salomon my sonne a perfit heart to keepe thy commandements, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to doe all things, and to builde the house which I haue prepared.
\v 20 And Dauid said to all the Congregation, Now blesse the Lord your God. And all the Congregation blessed the Lord God of their fathers, and bowed downe their heads, and worshipped the Lord and the King.
\v 21 And they offred sacrifices vnto the Lord, and on the morowe after that day, they offered burnt offrings vnto the Lord, euen a thousande yong bullocks, a thousand rammes and a thousand sheepe, with their drinke offrings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel.
\v 22 And they did eate and drinke before the Lord the same day with great ioy, and they made Salomon the sonne of Dauid King the seconde time, and anoynted him prince before the Lord, and Zadok for the hie Priest.
\v 23 So Salomon sate on the throne of the Lord, as King in steade of Dauid his father, and prospered: and all Israel obeyed him.
\v 24 And all the princes and men of power, and all the sonnes of King Dauid submitted them selues vnder King Salomon.
\v 25 And the Lord magnified Salomon in dignitie, in the sight of all Israel, and gaue him so glorious a kingdome, as no King had before him in Israel.
\v 26 Thus Dauid the sonne of Ishai reigned ouer all Israel.
\v 27 And the space that he reigned ouer Israel, was fourtie yeere: seuen yeere reigned he in Hebron, and three and thirtie yeere reigned he in Ierusalem:
\v 28 And he dyed in a good age, full of dayes, riches and honour, and Salomon his sonne reigned in his steade.
\v 29 Concerning the actes of Dauid the King first and last, behold, they are written in the booke of Samuel the Seer, and in the booke of Nathan the Prophet, and in the booke of Gad the Seer,
\v 30 With all his reigne and his power, and times that went ouer him, and ouer Israel and ouer all the kingdomes of the earth.