\c 13
\p
\v 1 There were certaine men present at the same season, that shewed him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
\v 2 And Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Suppose ye, that these Galileans were greater sinners then al the other Galileans, because they haue suffered such things?
\v 3 I tell you, nay: but except ye amend your liues, ye shall all likewise perish.
\v 4 Or thinke you that those eighteene, vpon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slewe them, were sinners aboue all men that dwel in Hierusalem?
\v 5 I tell you, nay: but except ye amend your liues, ye shall all likewise perish.
\v 6 He spake also this parable, A certaine man had a figge tree planted in his vineyard: and he came and sought fruite thereon, and found none.
\v 7 Then said he to the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, this three yeeres haue I come and sought fruite of this figge tree, and finde none: cut it downe: why keepeth it also the ground barren?
\v 8 And he answered, and said vnto him, Lord, let it alone this yeere also, till I digge round about it, and doung it.
\v 9 And if it beare fruite, well: if not, then after thou shalt cut it downe.
\v 10 And he taught in one of ye Synagogues on the Sabbath day.
\v 11 And behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmitie eighteene yeeres, and was bowed together, and coulde not lift vp her selfe in any wise.
\v 12 When Iesus sawe her, he called her to him, and said to her, Woman, thou art loosed from thy disease.
\v 13 And he laide his handes on her, and immediately she was made straight againe, and glorified God.
\v 14 And the ruler of the Synagogue answered with indignation, because that Iesus healed on the Sabbath day, and said vnto the people, There are sixe dayes in which men ought to worke: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day.
\v 15 Then answered him the Lord, and said, Hypocrite, doth not eche one of you on the Sabbath day loose his oxe or his asse from the stall, and leade him away to the water?
\v 16 And ought not this daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound, loe, eighteene yeeres, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day?
\v 17 And when he said these things, all his aduersaries were ashamed: but all the people reioyced at all the excellent things, that were done by him.
\v 18 Then said he, What is the kingdome of God like? or whereto shall I compare it?
\v 19 It is like a graine of mustard seede, which a man tooke and sowed in his garden, and it grewe, and waxed a great tree, and the foules of the heauen made nestes in the branches thereof.
\v 20 And againe he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdome of God?
\v 21 It is like leauen, which a woman tooke, and hid in three peckes of floure, till all was leauened.
\v 22 And he went through all cities and townes, teaching, and iourneying towards Hierusalem.
\v 23 Then saide one vnto him, Lord, are there fewe that shalbe saued? And he said vnto them,
\v 24 Striue to enter in at the straite gate: for many, I say vnto you, will seeke to enter in, and shall not be able.
\v 25 When the good man of the house is risen vp, and hath shut to the doore, and ye begin to stand without, and to knocke at the doore, saying, Lord, Lord, open to vs, and he shall answere and say vnto you, I know you not whence ye are,
\v 26 Then shall ye begin to say, We haue eaten and drunke in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streetes.
\v 27 But he shall say, I tell you, I knowe you not whence ye are: depart from me, all ye workers of iniquitie.
\v 28 There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac, and Iacob, and all the Prophets in the kingdome of God, and your selues thrust out at doores.
\v 29 Then shall come many from the East, and from the West, and from the North, and from the South, and shall sit at Table in the kingdome of God.
\v 30 And beholde, there are last, which shalbe first, and there are first, which shalbe last.
\v 31 The same day there came certaine Pharises, and said vnto him, Depart, and goe hence: for Herod will kill thee.
\v 32 Then said he vnto them, Goe ye and tell that foxe, Beholde, I cast out deuils, and will heale still to day, and to morowe, and the third day I shalbe perfected.
\v 33 Neuerthelesse I must walke to day, and to morowe, and the day following: for it cannot be that a Prophet should perish out of Hierusalem.
\v 34 O Hierusalem, Hierusalem, which killest the Prophets, and stonest them that are sent to thee, howe often would I haue gathered thy children together, as the henne gathereth her brood vnder her wings, and ye would not!
\v 35 Beholde, your house is left vnto you desolate: and verely I tell you, ye shall not see me vntill the time come that ye shall say, Blessed is he that commeth in the Name of the Lord.