\c 5
\p
\v 1 Then it came to passe, as the people preassed vpon him to heare the word of God, that he stoode by the lake of Gennesaret,
\v 2 And sawe two shippes stand by the lakes side, but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nettes.
\v 3 And he entred into one of the ships, which was Simons, and required him that he would thrust off a litle from the land: and he sate downe, and taught the people out of the ship.
\v 4 Now when he had left speaking, he sayd vnto Simon, Lanch out into the deepe, and let downe your nettes to make a draught.
\v 5 Then Simon answered, and sayd vnto him, Master, we haue trauailed sore all night, and haue taken nothing: neuerthelesse at thy worde I will let downe the net.
\v 6 And when they had so done, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes, so that their net brake.
\v 7 And they beckened to their parteners, which were in the other ship, that they shoulde come and helpe them, who came then, and filled both the ships, that they did sinke.
\v 8 Now when Simon Peter saw it, he fel down at Iesus knees, saying, Lord, go from me: for I am a sinfull man.
\v 9 For he was vtterly astonied, and all that were with him, for the draught of fishes which they tooke.
\v 10 And so was also Iames and Iohn the sonnes of Zebedeus, which were companions with Simon. Then Iesus sayde vnto Simon, Feare not: from henceforth thou shalt catch men.
\v 11 And when they had brought the ships to land, they forsooke all, and followed him.
\v 12 Nowe it came to passe, as he was in a certaine citie, beholde, there was a man full of leprosie, and when he sawe Iesus, he fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me cleane.
\v 13 So he stretched forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will, be thou cleane. And immediately the leprosie departed from him.
\v 14 And he commanded him that hee should tell it no man: but Go, sayth he, and shew thy selfe to the Priest, and offer for thy clensing, as Moses hath commanded, for a witnes vnto them.
\v 15 But so much more went there a fame abroad of him, and great multitudes came together to heare, and to be healed of him of their infirmities.
\v 16 But he kept himselfe apart in the wildernes, and prayed.
\v 17 And it came to passe, on a certaine day, as he was teaching, that the Pharises and doctours of the Law sate by, which were come out of euery towne of Galile, and Iudea, and Hierusalem, and the power of the Lord was in him to heale them.
\v 18 Then beholde, men brought a man lying in a bed, which was taken with a palsie, and they sought meanes to bring him in, and to lay him before him.
\v 19 And when they could not finde by what way they might bring him in, because of the preasse, they went vp on the house, and let him downe through the tyling, bed and all, in the middes before Iesus.
\v 20 And when he sawe their faith, he sayd vnto him, Man, thy sinnes are forgiuen thee.
\v 21 Then the Scribes and the Pharises began to reason, saying, Who is this that speaketh blasphemies? who can forgiue sinnes, but God onely?
\v 22 But when Iesus perceiued their reasoning, he answered, and sayd vnto them, What reason ye in your hearts?
\v 23 Whether is easier to say, Thy sinnes are forgiuen thee, or to say, Rise and walke?
\v 24 But that ye may know that that Sonne of man hath authoritie to forgiue sinnes in earth, (he sayd vnto the sicke of the palsie) I say to thee, Arise: take vp thy bed, and goe to thine house.
\v 25 And immediatly he rose vp before them, and tooke vp his bed whereon he lay, and departed to his owne house, praysing God.
\v 26 And they were all amased, and praysed God, and were filled with feare, saying, Doutlesse we haue seene strange things to day.
\v 27 And after that, he went foorth and sawe a Publicane named Leui, sitting at the receite of custome, and sayd vnto him, Follow me.
\v 28 And he left all, rose vp, and folowed him.
\v 29 Then Leui made him a great feast in his owne house, where there was a great company of Publicanes, and of other that sate at table with them.
\v 30 But they that were Scribes and Pharises among them, murmured against his disciples, saying, Why eate ye and drinke ye with Publicanes and sinners?
\v 31 Then Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, They that are whole, neede not the Physician, but they that are sicke.
\v 32 I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
\v 33 Then they said vnto him, Why do the disciples of Iohn fast often, and pray, and the disciples of the Pharises also, but thine eate and drinke?
\v 34 And he said vnto them, Can ye make the children of the wedding chamber to fast, as long as the bridegrome is with them?
\v 35 But the dayes will come, euen when the bridegrome shalbe taken away from them: then shall they fast in those dayes.
\v 36 Againe he spake also vnto them a parable, No man putteth a piece of a newe garment into an olde vesture: for then the newe renteth it, and the piece taken out of the newe, agreeth not with the olde.
\v 37 Also no man powreth newe wine into olde vessels: for then ye new wine wil breake the vessels, and it will runne out, and the vessels will perish:
\v 38 But newe wine must be powred into newe vessels: so both are preserued.
\v 39 Also no man that drinketh olde wine, straightway desireth newe: for he sayth, The olde is more profitable.