\c 29
\p
\v 1 This thing also shalt thou do vnto them whe thou consecratest them to be my Priestes, Take a yong calfe, and two rams without blemish,
\v 2 And vnleauened bread and cakes vnleauened tempered with oyle, and wafers vnleauened anoynted with oyle: (of fine wheate flowre shalt thou make them)
\v 3 Then thou shalt put them in one basket, and present them in the basket with the calfe and the two rammes,
\v 4 And shalt bring Aaron and his sonnes vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and wash them with water.
\v 5 Also thou shalt take the garments, and put vpon Aaron the tunicle, and the robe of the Ephod, and the Ephod, and the brest plate, and shalt close them to him with the broidred garde of the Ephod.
\v 6 Then thou shalt put the miter vpon his head, and shalt put the holy crowne vpon ye miter.
\v 7 And thou shalt take the anoynting oyle, and shalt powre vpon his head, and anoynt him.
\v 8 And thou shalt bring his sonnes, and put coates vpon them,
\v 9 And shalt girde them with girdles, both Aaron and his sonnes: and shalt put the bonets on them, and the Priestes office shalbe theirs for a perpetuall lawe: thou shalt also fill the hands of Aaron, and the hands of his sonnes.
\v 10 After, thou shalt present the calfe before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and Aaron and his sonnes shall put their handes vpon the head of the calfe.
\v 11 So thou shalt kill the calfe before the Lord, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 12 Then thou shalt take of the blood of the calfe, and put it vpon the hornes of the altar with thy finger, and shalt powre al the rest of the blood at the foote of the altar.
\v 13 Also thou shalt take all the fat that couereth the inwardes, and the kall, that is on the liuer, and the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and shalt burne them vpon the altar.
\v 14 But the flesh of the calfe, and his skin, and his doung shalt thou burne with fire without the hoste: it is a sinne offring.
\v 15 Thou shalt also take one ramme, and Aron and his sonnes shall put their hands vpon the head of the ramme.
\v 16 Then thou shalt kill the ramme, and take his blood, and sprinkle it round about vpon the altar,
\v 17 And thou shalt cut the ramme in pieces, and wash the inwards of him and his legges, and shalt put them vpon the pieces thereof, and vpon his head.
\v 18 So thou shalt burne the whole ram vpon the altar: for it is a burnt offering vnto the Lord for a sweete sauour: it is an offering made by fire vnto the Lord.
\v 19 And thou shalt take the other ramme, and Aaron and his sonnes shall put their handes vpon the head of the ramme.
\v 20 Then thou shalt kill the ramme, and take of his blood and put it vpon the lappe of Aarons eare, and vpon the lappe of the right eare of his sonnes, and vpon the thumbe of their right hand, and vpon the great toe of their right foote, and shalt sprinkle the blood vpon ye altar roud about.
\v 21 And thou shalt take of the blood that is vpon the altar, and of the anoynting oyle, and shalt sprinkle it vpon Aaron, and vpon his garments, and vpon his sonnes, and vpon the garments of his sonnes with him: so he shall be halowed, and his clothes, and his sonnes, and the garments of his sonnes with him.
\v 22 Also thou shalt take of the rammes ye fatte and the rumpe, euen the fat that couereth the inwards, and the kall of the liuer, and the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and the right shoulder, (for it is the ramme of consecration)
\v 23 And one loafe of bread, and one cake of bread tempered with oyle, and one wafer, out of the basket of the vnleauened bread that is before the Lord.
\v 24 And thou shalt put al this in the handes of Aaron, and in the handes of his sonnes, and shalt shake them to and from before the Lord.
\v 25 Againe, thou shalt receyue them of their handes, and burne them vpon the altar besides the burnt offring for a sweete sauour before ye Lord: for this is an offering made by fire vnto the Lord.
\v 26 Likewise thou shalt take the brest of the ram of the consecration, which is for Aaron, and shalt shake it to and from before the Lord and it shalbe thy part.
\v 27 And thou shalt sanctifie the brest of the shaken offering, and the shoulder of the heaue offering, which was shaken to and from, and which was heaued vp of the ramme of the consecration, which was for Aaron, and which was for his sonnes.
\v 28 And Aaron and his sonnes shall haue it by a statute for euer, of the children of Israel: for it is an heaue offering, and it shall be an heaue offering of the children of Israel, of their peace offerings, euen their heaue offering to the Lord.
\v 29 And the holy garmets, which appertaine to Aaron, shall bee his sonnes after him, to bee anoynted therein, and to bee consecrate therein.
\v 30 That sonne that shalbe Priest in his steade, shall put them on seuen dayes, when he commeth into the Tabernacle of the Congregation to minister in the holy place.
\v 31 So thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seeth his flesh in the holy place.
\v 32 And Aaron and his sonnes shall eate the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the doore of ye Tabernacle of ye Congregation.
\v 33 So they shall eate these thinges, whereby their attonement was made, to consecrate them, and to sanctifie them: but a stranger shall not eate thereof, because they are holy things.
\v 34 Now if ought of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread remaine vnto the morning, then thou shalt burne the rest with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is an holie thing.
\v 35 Therefore shalt thou doe thus vnto Aaron and vnto his sonnes, according to all things, which I haue commanded thee: seuen dayes shalt thou consecrate them,
\v 36 And shalt offer euery day a calfe for a sinne offring, for reconciliation: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast offred vpon it for reconciliation, and shalt annoynt it, to sanctifie it.
\v 37 Seuen dayes shalt thou cleanse the altar, and sanctifie it, so the altar shalbe most holy: and whatsoeuer toucheth the altar, shalbe holy.
\v 38 Nowe this is that which thou shalt present vpon the altar: euen two lambes of one yere olde, day by day continually.
\v 39 The one lambe thou shalt present in the morning, and the other lambe thou shalt present at euen.
\v 40 And with the one lambe, a tenth part of fine floure mingled with the fourth part of an Hin of beaten oyle, and the fourth part of an Hin of wine, for a drinke offring.
\v 41 And the other lambe thou shalt present at euen: thou shalt doe thereto according to the offring of the morning, and according to the drinke offring thereof, to be a burnt offring for a sweete sauour vnto, the Lord.
\v 42 This shalbe a continuall burnt offring in your generations at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the Lord, where I wil make appoyntment with you, to speake there vnto thee.
\v 43 There I will appoynt with the children of Israel, and the place shall bee sanctified by my glorie.
\v 44 And I will sanctifie the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the altar: I will sanctifie also Aaron and his sonnes to be my Priests,
\v 45 And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will bee their God.
\v 46 Then shall they knowe that I am ye Lord their God, that brought them out of the lande of Egypt, that I might dwell among them: I am the Lord their God.