\c 26
\p
\v 1 Afterwarde thou shalt make the Tabernacle with tenne curtaines of fine twined linen, and blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet: and in them thou shalt make Cherubims of broydered worke.
\v 2 The length of one curtaine shalbe eight and twentie cubites, and the bredth of one curtaine, foure cubites: euery one of the curtaines shall haue one measure.
\v 3 Fiue curtaines shalbe coupled one to an other: and the other fiue curtaines shall be coupled one to another.
\v 4 And thou shalt make stringes of blew silke vpon the edge of the one curtaine, which is in the seluedge of the coupling: and likewise shalt thou make in the edge of the other curtaine in the seluedge, in the second coupling.
\v 5 Fiftie strings shalt thou make in one curtaine, and fiftie stringes shalt thou make in the edge of the curtaine, which is in the second coupling: ye stringes shalbe one right against another.
\v 6 Thou shalt make also fiftie taches of gold, and couple the curtaines one to another with the taches, and it shalbe one tabernacle.
\v 7 Also thou shalt make curtaines of goates heare, to be a couering vpon the Tabernacle: thou shalt make them to the number of eleuen curtaines.
\v 8 The length of a curtaine shall be thirtie cubites, and the breadth of a curtaine foure cubites: the eleuen curtaines shalbe of one measure.
\v 9 And thou shalt couple fiue curtaynes by themselues, and the sixe curtaines by themselues: but thou shalt double the sixt curtaine vpon the forefront of the couering.
\v 10 And thou shalt make fifty stringes in the edge of one curtayne, in the seluedge of the coupling, and fifty stringes in the edge of the other curtaine in the second coupling.
\v 11 Likewise thou shalt make fifty taches of brasse, and fasten them on the strings, and shalt couple the couering together, that it may be one.
\v 12 And the remnant that resteth in ye curtaines of the couering, euen the halfe curtaine that resteth, shalbe left at the backeside of the Tabernacle,
\v 13 That the cubite on the one side, and the cubite on the other side of that which is left in the legth of the curtaines of ye couering, may remaine on either side of the Tabernacle to couer it.
\v 14 Moreouer, for that couering thou shalt make a couering of rammes skinnes died red, and a couering of badgers skinnes aboue.
\v 15 Also thou shalt make boards for the Tabernacle of Shittim wood to stand vp.
\v 16 Ten cubites shalbe the length of a boarde, and a cubite and an halfe cubite the breadth of one boarde.
\v 17 Two tenons shalbe in one boarde set in order as the feete of a ladder, one against an other: thus shalt thou make for all the boardes of the Tabernacle.
\v 18 And thou shalt make boardes for the Tabernacle, euen twenty boardes on the South side, euen full South.
\v 19 And thou shalt make fourty sockets of siluer vnder the twentie boardes, two sockets vnder one boarde for his two tenons, and two sockets vnder an other boarde for his two tenons.
\v 20 In like maner on the other side of the Tabernacle towarde the North side shalbe twentie boardes,
\v 21 And their fourtie sockets of siluer, two sockets vnder one boarde, and two sockets vnder another board.
\v 22 And on the side of the Tabernacle, toward the West shalt thou make sixe boards.
\v 23 Also two boardes shalt thou make in the corners of the Tabernacle in the two sides.
\v 24 Also they shalbe ioyned beneath, and likewise they shalbe ioyned aboue to a ring: thus shall it be for them two: they shalbe for ye two corners.
\v 25 So they shalbe eight boardes hauing sockets of siluer, euen sixteene sockets, that is, two sockets vnder one board, and two sockets vnder an other boarde.
\v 26 The thou shalt make fiue barres of Shittim wood for the boardes of one side of the Tabernacle,
\v 27 And fiue barres for the boardes of the other side of the Tabernacle: also fiue barres for the boardes of the side of the Tabernacle toward the Westside.
\v 28 And the middle barre shall goe through the middes of the boards, from ende to ende.
\v 29 And thou shalt couer the boards with golde, and make their rings of golde, for places for the barres, and thou shalt couer the barres with golde.
\v 30 So thou shalt reare vp the Tabernacle, according to the facion thereof, which was shewed thee in the mount.
\v 31 Moreouer, thou shalt make a vaile of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen: thou shalt make it of broydred worke with Cherubims.
\v 32 And thou shalt hang it vpon foure pillars of Shittim wood couered with gold, (whose hookes shalbe of gold) stading vpon foure sockets of siluer.
\v 33 Afterward thou shalt hang the vaile on the hookes, that thou mayest bring in thither, that is (within the vaile) the arke of the Testimonie: and the vaile shall make you a separation betweene the Holy place and the most holy place.
\v 34 Also thou shalt put ye Mercy seate vpon the Arke of the testimonie in the most Holy place.
\v 35 And thou shalt set the Table without the vaile, and the Candlesticke ouer against the Table on the Southside of the Tabernacle, and thou shalt set the Table on the Northside.
\v 36 Also thou shalt make an hanging for the dore of ye Tabernacle of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen wrought with needle.
\v 37 And thou shalt make for the hanging fiue pillars of Shittim, and couer them with gold: their heads shalbe of golde, and thou shalt cast fiue sockets of brasse for them.