\c 9
\p
\v 1 And as Iesus passed by, he sawe a man which was blinde from his birth.
\v 2 And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sinne, this man, or his parents, that he was borne blinde?
\v 3 Iesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the workes of God should be shewed on him.
\v 4 I must worke the workes of him that sent me, while it is day: the night commeth when no man can worke.
\v 5 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
\v 6 Assoone as he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spettle, and anointed the eyes of the blinde with the clay,
\v 7 And sayd vnto him, Go wash in the poole of Siloam (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came againe seeing.
\v 8 Nowe the neighbours and they that had seene him before, when he was blinde, sayd, Is not this he that sate and begged?
\v 9 Some said, This is he: and other sayd, He is like him: but he himselfe sayd, I am he.
\v 10 Therefore they sayd vnto him, Howe were thine eyes opened?
\v 11 He answered, and sayd, The man that is called Iesus, made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and sayde vnto me, Goe to the poole of Siloam and wash. So I went and washed, and receiued sight.
\v 12 Then they sayd vnto him, Where is he? He sayd, I can not tell.
\v 13 They brought to the Pharises him that was once blinde.
\v 14 And it was the Sabbath day, when Iesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.
\v 15 Then againe the Pharises also asked him, how he had receiued sight. And hee sayd vnto them, He layd clay vpon mine eyes, and I washed, and doe see.
\v 16 Then said some of the Pharises, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the Sabbath day. Others sayd, Howe can a man that is a sinner, doe such miracles? and there was a dissension among them.
\v 17 Then spake they vnto the blinde againe, What sayest thou of him, because he hath opened thine eyes? And he sayd, He is a Prophet.
\v 18 Then the Iewes did not beleeue him (that he had bene blinde, and receiued his sight) vntill they had called the parents of him that had receiued sight.
\v 19 And they asked them, saying, Is this your sonne, whom ye say was borne blinde? How doeth he nowe see then?
\v 20 His parents answered them, and sayd, We know that this is our sonne, and that he was borne blinde:
\v 21 But by what meanes hee nowe seeth, we know not: or who hath opened his eyes, can we not tell: he is olde ynough: aske him: hee shall answere for himselfe.
\v 22 These wordes spake his parents, because they feared the Iewes: for the Iewes had ordeined already, that if any man did confesse that he was Christ, he should be excommunicate out of the Synagogue.
\v 23 Therefore sayde his parents, Hee is olde ynough: aske him.
\v 24 Then againe called they the man that had bene blinde, and sayd vnto him, Giue glory vnto God: we know that this man is a sinner.
\v 25 Then he answered, and sayd, Whether hee be a sinner or no, I can not tell: one thing I know, that I was blinde, and nowe I see.
\v 26 Then sayd they to him againe, What did he to thee? howe opened he thine eyes?
\v 27 Hee answered them, I haue tolde you already, and yee haue not heard it: wherefore would yee heare it againe? will yee also be his disciples?
\v 28 Then reuiled they him, and sayd, Be thou his disciple: we be Moses disciples.
\v 29 We know that God spake with Moses: but this man we know not from whence he is.
\v 30 The man answered, and sayde vnto them, Doutlesse, this is a marueilous thing, that ye know not whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes.
\v 31 Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him heareth he.
\v 32 Since the world began, was it not heard, that any man opened the eyes of one that was borne blinde.
\v 33 If this man were not of God, hee could haue done nothing.
\v 34 They answered, and sayd vnto him, Thou art altogether borne in sinnes, and doest thou teach vs? so they cast him out.
\v 35 Iesus heard that they had cast him out: and when he had found him, he sayd vnto him, Doest thou beleeue in the Sonne of God?
\v 36 He answered, and sayd, Who is he, Lord, that I might beleeue in him?
\v 37 And Iesus sayd vnto him, Both thou hast seene him, and he it is that talketh with thee.
\v 38 Then he sayd, Lord, I beleeue, and worshipped him.
\v 39 And Iesus sayd, I am come vnto iudgement into this world, that they which see not, might see: and that they which see, might be made blinde.
\v 40 And some of the Pharises which were with him, heard these things, and sayd vnto him, Are we blinde also?
\v 41 Iesus sayd vnto them, If ye were blinde, ye should not haue sinne: but nowe ye say, We see: therefore your sinne remaineth.