\c 17
\p
\v 1 Then said he to his disciples, It can not be auoided, but that offences will come, but wo be to him by whome they come.
\v 2 It is better for him that a great milstone were hanged about his necke, and that he were cast into ye sea, then that he should offende one of these litle ones.
\v 3 Take heede to your selues: if thy brother trespasse against thee, rebuke him: and if hee repent, forgiue him.
\v 4 And though he sinne against thee seuen times in a day, and seuen times in a day turne againe to thee, saying, It repenteth mee, thou shalt forgiue him.
\v 5 And the Apostles saide vnto the Lord, Increase our faith.
\v 6 And the Lord said, If ye had faith, as much as is a graine of mustard seede, and should say vnto this mulberie tree, Plucke thy selfe vp by the rootes, and plant thy selfe in the sea, it should euen obey you.
\v 7 Who is it also of you, that hauing a seruant plowing or feeding cattell, woulde say vnto him by and by, when hee were come from the fielde, Goe, and sit downe at table?
\v 8 And woulde not rather say to him, Dresse wherewith I may suppe, and girde thy selfe, and serue mee, till I haue eaten and drunken, and afterward eate thou, and drinke thou?
\v 9 Doeth he thanke that seruant, because hee did that which was commanded vnto him? I trowe not.
\v 10 So likewise yee, when yee haue done all those things, which are commanded you, say, We are vnprofitable seruants: wee haue done that which was our duetie to doe.
\v 11 And so it was when he went to Hierusalem, that he passed through the middes of Samaria, and Galile.
\v 12 And as hee entred into a certaine towne, there met him tenne men that were lepers, which stoode a farre off.
\v 13 And they lift vp their voyces and saide, Iesus, Master, haue mercie on vs.
\v 14 And when he saw them, he said vnto them, Goe, shewe your selues vnto the Priestes. And it came to passe, that as they went, they were clensed.
\v 15 Then one of them, when hee sawe that hee, was healed, turned backe, and with a loude voyce praised God,
\v 16 And fell downe on his face at his feete, and gaue him thankes: and he was a Samaritan.
\v 17 And Iesus answered, and said, Are there not tenne clensed? but where are the nine?
\v 18 There is none founde that returned to giue God praise, saue this stranger.
\v 19 And he saide vnto him, Arise, goe thy way, thy faith hath saued thee.
\v 20 And when hee was demaunded of the Pharises, when the kingdome of God shoulde come, he answered them, and said, The kingdome of God commeth not with obseruation.
\v 21 Neither shall men say, Loe here, or lo there: for behold, the kingdome of God is within you.
\v 22 And he saide vnto the disciples, The dayes will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the dayes of the Sonne of man, and ye shall not see it.
\v 23 Then they shall say to you, Behold here, or beholde there: but goe not thither, neither follow them.
\v 24 For as the lightening that lighteneth out of the one part vnder heauen, shineth vnto the other part vnder heauen, so shall the Sonne of man be in his day.
\v 25 But first must he suffer many things, and be reprooued of this generation.
\v 26 And as it was in the dayes of Noe, so shall it be in the dayes of the Sonne of man.
\v 27 They ate, they dranke, they married wiues, and gaue in marriage vnto the day that Noe went into the Arke: and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
\v 28 Likewise also, as it was in the dayes of Lot: they ate, they dranke, they bought, they solde, they planted, they built.
\v 29 But in the day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heauen, and destroyed them all.
\v 30 After these ensamples shall it be in the day when the Sonne of man is reueiled.
\v 31 At that day hee that is vpon the house, and his stuffe in ye house, let him not come downe to take it out: and he that is in the fielde likewise, let him not turne backe to that he left behinde.
\v 32 Remember Lots wife.
\v 33 Whosoeuer will seeke to saue his soule, shall loose it: and whosoeuer shall loose it, shall get it life.
\v 34 I tell you, in that night there shall be two in one bed: the one shalbe receiued, and the other shalbe left.
\v 35 Two women shalbe grinding together: the one shalbe taken, and the other shalbe left.
\v 36 Two shalbe in the fielde: one shalbe receiued, and another shalbe left.
\v 37 And they answered, and saide to him, Where, Lord? And he said vnto them, Wheresoeuer the body is, thither shall also the eagles bee gathered together.