\c 26
\p
\v 1 Concerning the diuisions of the porters, of the Korhites, Meshelemiah the sonne of Kore of the sonnes of Asaph.
\v 2 And the sonnes of Meshelemiah, Zechariah the eldest, Iediael the seconde, Zebadiah the third, Iathniel the fourth,
\v 3 Elam the fift, Ichohanan the sixt, and Eliehoenai the seuenth.
\v 4 And the sonnes of Obed Edom, Shemaiah the eldest, Iehozabad the second, Ioah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fift,
\v 5 Ammiel the sixt, Issachar the seuenth, Peulthai the eight: for God had blessed him.
\v 6 And to Shemaiah his sonne, were sonnes borne, that ruled in the house of their father, for they were men of might.
\v 7 The sonnes of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad and his brethren, strong men: Elihu also, and Semachiah.
\v 8 All these were of the sonnes of Obed Edom, they and their sonnes and their brethren mightie and strong to serue, euen three score and two of Obed Edom.
\v 9 And of Meshelemiah sonnes and brethren, eighteene mightie men.
\v 10 And of Hosah of the sonnes of Merari, the sonnes were Shuri the chiefe, and (though he was not the eldest, yet his father made him the chiefe)
\v 11 Helkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, and Zechariah the fourth: all the sonnes and the brethren of Hosa were thirteene.
\v 12 Of these were the diuisions of the porters of the chiefe men, hauing the charge against their brethren, to serue in the house of the Lord.
\v 13 And they cast lottes both small and great for the house of their fathers, for euery gate.
\v 14 And the lot on the East side fel to Shelemiah: then they cast lottes for Zechariah his sonne a wise couseller, and his lot came out Northward:
\v 15 To Obed Edom Southwarde, and to his sonnes the house of Asuppim:
\v 16 To Shuppim and to Hosah Westwarde with the gate of Shallecheth by the paued streete that goeth vpward, warde ouer against warde.
\v 17 Eastward were sixe Leuites, and Northwarde foure a day, and Southward foure a day, and toward Asuppim two and two.
\v 18 In Parbar towarde the West were foure by the paued streete, and two in Parbar.
\v 19 These are the diuisions of the porters of the sonnes of Kore, and of the sonnes of Merari.
\v 20 And of the Leuites. Ahiiah was ouer the treasures of the house of God, and ouer the treasures of the dedicate things.
\v 21 Of the sonnes of Laadan the sonnes of the Gershunnites descending of Laadan, the chiefe fathers of Laadan were Gershunni and Iehieli.
\v 22 The sonnes of Iehieli were Zethan and Ioel his brother, appoynted ouer the treasures of the house of the Lord.
\v 23 Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites and of the Ozielites.
\v 24 And Shebuel the sonne of Gershom, the sonne of Moses, a ruler ouer the treasures.
\v 25 And of his brethren which came of Eliezer, was Rehabiah his sonne, and Ieshaiah his sonne, and Ioram his sonne, and Zichri his sonne, and Shelomith his sonne.
\v 26 Which Shelomith and his brethren were ouer al the treasures of the dedicate things, which Dauid the King, and the chiefe fathers, the captaines ouer thousands, and hundreths, and the captaines of the armie had dedicated.
\v 27 (For of the battels and of the spoyles they did dedicate to maintaine the house of the Lord)
\v 28 And al that Samuel the Seer had dedicate and Saul the sonne of Kish and Abner the sonne of Ner, and Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah, and whosoeuer had dedicate any thing, it was vnder the hand of Shelomith, and his brethren.
\v 29 Of the Izharites was Chenaniah and his sonnes, for the busines without ouer Israel, for officers and for Iudges.
\v 30 Of the Hebronites, Ashabiah and his brethren, men of actiuitie, a thousande, and seuen hundreth were officers for Israel beyonde Iorden Westward, in all the busines of the Lord, and for the seruice of the King.
\v 31 Among the Hebronites was Iediiah the chiefest, euen the Hebronites by his generations according to the families. And in the fourtieth yere of the reigne of Dauid they were sought for: and there were founde among them men of actiuitie at Iazer in Gilead.
\v 32 And his brethren men of actiuitie, two thousand and seuen hundreth chiefe fathers, whom King Dauid made rulers ouer the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the halfe tribe of Manasseh, for euery matter perteining to God, and for the Kings busines.