\c 21
\p
\v 1 After these things, Iesus shewed himselfe againe to his disciples at the sea of Tiberias: and thus shewed he himselfe:
\v 2 There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas, which is called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galile, and the sonnes of Zebedeus, and two other of his disciples.
\v 3 Simon Peter said vnto them, I go a fishing. They said vnto him, We also will goe with thee. They went their way and entred into a ship straightway, and that night caught they nothing.
\v 4 But when the morning was nowe come, Iesus stoode on the shore: neuerthelesse the disciples knewe not that it was Iesus.
\v 5 Iesus then said vnto them, Syrs, haue ye any meate? They answered him, No.
\v 6 Then he said vnto them, Cast out the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall finde. So they cast out, and they were not able at all to draw it, for the multitude of fishes.
\v 7 Therefore said the disciple whom Iesus loued, vnto Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girded his coate to him (for he was naked) and cast himselfe into the sea.
\v 8 But the other disciples came by shippe (for they were not farre from land, but about two hundreth cubites) and they drewe the net with fishes.
\v 9 Assoone then as they were come to land, they sawe hoate coales, and fish laide thereon, and bread.
\v 10 Iesus saide vnto them, Bring of the fishes, which ye haue nowe caught.
\v 11 Simon Peter stepped foorth and drewe the net to land, full of great fishes, an hundreth, fiftie and three: and albeit there were so many, yet was not the net broken.
\v 12 Iesus saide vnto them, Come, and dine. And none of the disciples durst aske him, Who art thou? seeing they knewe that he was the Lord.
\v 13 Iesus then came and tooke bread, and gaue them, and fish likewise.
\v 14 This is now the third time that Iesus shewed himselfe to his disciples, after that he was risen againe from the dead.
\v 15 So when they had dined, Iesus said to Simon Peter, Simon the sonne of Iona, louest thou me more then these? He said vnto him, Yea Lord, thou knowest that I loue thee. He said vnto him, Feede my lambes.
\v 16 He said to him againe the second time, Simon the sonne of Iona, louest thou me? He said vnto him, Yea Lord, thou knowest that I loue thee. He said vnto him, Feede my sheepe.
\v 17 He said vnto him the third time, Simon the sonne of Iona, louest thou me? Peter was sorie because he said to him the third time, Louest thou me? and said vnto him, Lord, thou knowest all things: thou knowest that I loue thee. Iesus saide vnto him, Feede my sheepe.
\v 18 Verely, verely I say vnto thee, When thou wast yong, thou girdedst thy selfe, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be olde, thou shalt stretch foorth thine hands, and another shall gird thee, and lead thee whither thou wouldest not.
\v 19 And this spake he signifying by what death he shoulde glorifie God. And when he had said this, he said to him, Folowe me.
\v 20 Then Peter turned about, and sawe the disciple whom JESUS loued, folowing, which had also leaned on his breast at supper, and had saide, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee?
\v 21 When Peter therefore sawe him, he saide to Iesus, Lord, what shall this man doe?
\v 22 Iesus said vnto him, If I will that he tarie till I come, what is it to thee? follow thou me.
\v 23 Then went this worde abroade among the brethren, that this disciple shoulde not die. Yet Iesus saide not to him, He shall not die: but if I will that he tarie till I come, what is it to thee?
\v 24 This is that disciple, which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things, and we know that his testimonie is true.
\v 25 Nowe there are also many other things which Iesus did, the which if they should be written euery one, I suppose the world coulde not conteine the bookes that shoulde be written, Amen.