\c 18
\p
\v 1 And after these thinges, I sawe another Angel come downe from heauen, hauing great power, so that the earth was lightened with his glorie,
\v 2 And he cryed out mightily with a loud voyce, saying, It is fallen, it is fallen, Babylon that great citie, and is become the habitation of deuils, and the holde of all foule spirits, and a cage of euery vncleane and hatefull birde.
\v 3 For all nations haue drunken of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the Kings of the earth haue committed fornication with her, and the marchants of the earth are waxed rich of the abundance of her pleasures.
\v 4 And I heard another voyce from heauen say, Goe out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sinnes, and that ye receiue not of her plagues.
\v 5 For her sinnes are come vp into heauen, and God hath remembred her iniquities.
\v 6 Rewarde her, euen as she hath rewarded you, and giue her double according to her workes: and in the cup that she hath filled to you, fill her ye double.
\v 7 In as much as she glorified her selfe, and liued in pleasure, so much giue ye to her torment and sorow: for she saith in her heart, I sit being a queene, and am no widowe, and shall see no mourning.
\v 8 Therefore shall her plagues come at one day, death, and sorowe, and famine, and she shalbe burnt with fire: for that God which condemneth her, is a strong Lord.
\v 9 And the kings of the earth shall bewayle her, and lament for her, which haue committed fornication, and liued in pleasure with her, when they shall see that smoke of that her burning,
\v 10 And shall stand a farre off for feare of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great citie Babylon, that mightie citie: for in one houre is thy iudgement come.
\v 11 And the marchants of the earth shall weepe and wayle ouer her: for no man byeth their ware any more.
\v 12 The ware of golde, and siluer, and of precious stone, and of pearles, and of fine linnen, and of purple, and of silke, and of skarlet, and of all maner of Thyne wood, and of all vessels of yuorie, and of all vessels of most precious wood, and of brasse, and of yron, and of marble,
\v 13 And of cinamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oyle, and fine floure, and wheate, and beastes, and sheepe, and horses, and charets, and seruants, and soules of men.
\v 14 (And the apples that thy soule lusted after, are departed from thee, and all things which were fatte and excellent, are departed from thee, and thou shalt finde them no more)
\v 15 The marchants of these thinges which were waxed riche, shall stand a farre off from her, for feare of her torment, weeping and wayling,
\v 16 And saying, Alas, alas, that great citie, that was clothed in fine linnen and purple, and skarlet, and gilded with gold, and precious stones, and pearles.
\v 17 For in one houre so great riches are come to desolation. And euery shipmaster, and all the people that occupie shippes, and shipmen, and whosoeuer traffike on the sea, shall stand a farre off,
\v 18 And crie, when they see that smoke of that her burning, saying, What citie was like vnto this great citie?
\v 19 And they shall cast dust on their heads, and crie, weeping, and wayling, and say, Alas, alas, that great citie, wherein were made rich all that had ships on the sea by her costlinesse: for in one houre she is made desolate.
\v 20 O heauen, reioyce of her, and ye holy Apostles and Prophets: for God hath punished her to be reuenged on her for your sakes.
\v 21 Then a mightie Angell tooke vp a stone like a great milstone, and cast it into the sea, saying, With such violence shall that great citie Babylon be cast, and shalbe found no more.
\v 22 And the voyce of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpetters shalbe heard no more in thee, and no craftesman, of whatsoeuer craft he be, shall be found any more in thee: and the sound of a milstone shalbe heard no more in thee.
\v 23 And the light of a candle shall shine no more in thee: and the voyce of the bridegrome and of the bride shalbe heard no more in thee: for thy marchants were the great men of the earth: and with thine inchantments were deceiued all nations.
\v 24 And in her was found the blood of the Prophets, and of the Saints, and of all that were slaine vpon the earth.