\c 20
\p
\v 1 And I saw an Angel come downe from heauen, hauing the keye of the bottomles pit, and a great chaine in his hand.
\v 2 And he tooke the dragon that olde serpent, which is the deuill and Satan, and he bounde him a thousand yeeres:
\v 3 And cast him into the bottomles pit, and he shut him vp, and sealed the doore vpon him, that he should deceiue the people no more, till the thousand yeeres were fulfilled: for after that he must be loosed for a litle season.
\v 4 And I sawe seates: and they sate vpon them, and iudgement was giuen vnto them, and I saw the soules of them that were beheaded for the witnes of Iesus, and for the word of God, and which did not worship the beast, neither his image, neither had taken his marke vpon their foreheads, or on their handes: and they liued, and reigned with Christ a thousand yeere.
\v 5 But the rest of the dead men shall not liue againe, vntill the thousand yeres be finished: this is the first resurrection.
\v 6 Blessed and holy is hee, that hath part in the first resurrection: for on such the second death hath no power: but they shalbe the Priests of God and of Christ, and shall reigne with him a thousand yeere.
\v 7 And when the thousand yeres are expired, Satan shalbe loosed out of his prison,
\v 8 And shall go out to deceiue the people, which are in the foure quarters of the earth: euen Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battell, whose number is, as the sand of the sea.
\v 9 And they went vp into the plaine of the earth, and they compassed the tents of the Saints about, and the beloued citie: but fire came downe from God out of heauen, and deuoured them.
\v 10 And the deuill that deceiued them, was cast into a lake of fire and brimstone, where that beast and that false prophet are, and shall be tormented euen day and night for euermore.
\v 11 And I saw a great white throne, and one that sate on it, from whose face fled away both the earth and heauen, and their place was no more found.
\v 12 And I saw the dead, both great and small stand before God: and the bookes were opened, and another booke was opened, which is the booke of life, and the dead were iudged of those thinges, which were written in the bookes, according to their woorkes.
\v 13 And the sea gaue vp her dead, which were in her, and death and hell deliuered vp the dead, which were in them: and they were iudged euery man according to their woorkes.
\v 14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire: this is the second death.
\v 15 And whosoeuer was not found written in the booke of life, was cast into the lake of fire.