\c 3
\p
\v 1 Nowe in the fifteenth yeere of the reigne of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being gouernour of Iudea, and Herod being Tetrarch of Galile, and his brother Philip Tetrarch of Iturea, and of the countrey of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the Tetrarch of Abilene,
\v 2 (When Annas and Caiaphas were the hie Priestes) the worde of God came vnto Iohn, the sonne of Zacharias in the wildernes.
\v 3 And hee came into all the coastes about Iordan, preaching the baptisme of repentance for the remission of sinnes,
\v 4 As it is written in the booke of the sayings of Esaias the Prophet, which saith, The voyce of him that crieth in the wildernes is, Prepare ye the way of the Lord: make his paths straight.
\v 5 Euery valley shalbe filled, and euery mountaine and hill shall be brought lowe, and crooked things shalbe made straight, and the rough wayes shalbe made smoothe.
\v 6 And all flesh shall see the saluation of God.
\v 7 Then said he to the people that were come out to be baptized of him, O generations of vipers, who hath forewarned you to flee from the wrath to come?
\v 8 Bring foorth therefore fruites worthy amendment of life, and beginne not to say with your selues, We haue Abraham to our father: for I say vnto you, that God is able of these stones to raise vp children vnto Abraham.
\v 9 Nowe also is the axe layed vnto the roote of the trees: therefore euery tree which bringeth not foorth good fruite, shalbe hewen downe, and cast into the fire.
\v 10 Then the people asked him, saying, What shall we doe then?
\v 11 And he answered, and said vnto them, He that hath two coates, let him part with him that hath none: and hee that hath meate, let him doe likewise.
\v 12 Then came there Publicanes also to bee baptized, and saide vnto him, Master, what shall we doe?
\v 13 And hee saide vnto them, Require no more then that which is appointed vnto you.
\v 14 The souldiers likewise demaunded of him, saying, And what shall we doe? And he saide vnto them, Doe violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely, and be content with your wages.
\v 15 As the people waited, and all men mused in their heartes of Iohn, if he were not that Christ,
\v 16 Iohn answered, and saide to them all, In deede I baptize you with water, but one stronger then I, commeth, whose shoes latchet I am not worthy to vnloose: hee will baptize you with the holy Ghost, and with fire.
\v 17 Whose fanne is in his hande, and hee will make cleane his floore, and will gather the wheate into his garner, but the chaffe will hee burne vp with fire that neuer shalbe quenched.
\v 18 Thus then exhorting with many other things, he preached vnto the people.
\v 19 But when Herod the Tetrarch was rebuked of him, for Herodias his brother Philips wife, and for all the euils which Herod had done,
\v 20 He added yet this aboue all, that he shut vp Iohn in prison.
\v 21 Nowe it came to passe, as all the people were baptized, and that Iesus was baptized and did pray, that the heauen was opened:
\v 22 And the holy Ghost came downe in a bodily shape like a doue, vpon him, and there was a voyce from heauen, saying, Thou art my beloued Sonne: in thee I am well pleased.
\v 23 And Iesus himselfe began to bee about thirtie yeere of age, being as men supposed the sonne of Ioseph, which was the sonne of Eli,
\v 24 The sonne of Matthat, the sonne of Leui, the sonne of Melchi, the sonne of Ianna, the sonne of Ioseph,
\v 25 The sonne of Mattathias, the sonne of Amos, the sonne of Naum, the sonne of Esli, the sonne of Nagge,
\v 26 The sonne of Maath, the sonne of Mattathias, the sonne of Semei, the sonne of Ioseph, the sonne of Iuda,
\v 27 The sonne of Ioanna, the sonne of Rhesa, the sonne of Zorobabel, the sonne of Salathiel, the sonne of Neri,
\v 28 The sonne of Melchi, the sonne of Addi, the sonne of Cosam, the sonne of Elmodam, the sonne of Er,
\v 29 The sonne of Iose, the sonne of Eliezer, the sonne of Iorim, the sonne of Matthat, the son of Leui,
\v 30 The sonne of Simeon, the sonne of Iuda, the sonne of Ioseph, the sonne of Ionan, the sonne of Eliacim,
\v 31 The sonne of Melea, the sonne of Mainan, the sonne of Mattatha, the sonne of Nathan, the sonne of Dauid,
\v 32 The sonne of Iesse, the sonne of Obed, the sonne of Booz, the sonne of Salmon, the sonne of Naasson,
\v 33 The sonne of Aminadab, the sonne of Aram, the sonne of Esrom, the sonne of Phares, the sonne of Iuda,
\v 34 The sonne of Iacob, the sonne of Isaac, the sonne of Abraham, the sonne of Thara, the sonne of Nachor,
\v 35 The sonne of Saruch, the sonne of Ragau, the sonne of Phalec, the sonne of Eber, the sonne of Sala,
\v 36 The sonne of Cainan, the sonne of Arphaxad, the sonne of Sem, the sonne of Noe, the sonne of Lamech,
\v 37 The sonne of Mathusala, the sonne of Enoch, the sonne of Iared, the sonne of Maleleel, the sonne of Cainan,
\v 38 The sonne of Enos, the sonne of Seth, the sonne of Adam, the sonne of God.