\c 27
\p
\v 1 Then came the daughters of Zelophehad, the sonne of Hepher, the sonne of Gilead, the sonne of Machir, the sonne of Manasseh, of the familie of Manasseh, the sonne of Ioseph (and the names of his daughters were these, Mahlah, Noah and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah)
\v 2 And stoode before Moses, and before Eleazar the Priest, and before the Princes, and all the assemblie, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, saying,
\v 3 Our father dyed in the wildernes, and he was not among the assemblie of them that were assembled against the Lord in the companie of Korah, but died in his sinne, and had no sonnes.
\v 4 Wherefore should the name of our father be taken away from among his familie, because he hath no sonne? giue vs a possession among the brethren of our father.
\v 5 Then Moses brought their cause before the Lord.
\v 6 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 7 The daughters of Zelophehad speake right: thou shalt giue them a possession to inherite among their fathers brethren, and shalt turne the inheritance of their father vnto them.
\v 8 Also thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, If a man die and haue no sonne, then ye shall turne his inheritaunce vnto his daughter.
\v 9 And if he haue no daughter, ye shall giue his inheritance vnto his brethren.
\v 10 And if he haue no brethren, ye shall giue his inheritance vnto his fathers brethren.
\v 11 And if his father haue no brethren, ye shall giue his inheritance vnto his next kinsman of his familie, and he shall possesse it: and this shall be vnto the children of Israel a law of iudgement, as the Lord hath commanded Moses.
\v 12 Againe the Lord said vnto Moses, Go vp into this mount of Abarim, and behold ye lande which I haue giuen vnto the children of Israel.
\v 13 And when thou hast seene it, thou shalt be gathered vnto thy people also, as Aaron thy brother was gathered.
\v 14 For ye were disobedient vnto my worde in the desert of Zin, in the strife of the assemblie, to sanctifie me in the waters before their eyes. That is the water of Meribah in Kadesh in the wildernesse of Zin.
\v 15 Then Moses spake vnto the Lord, saying,
\v 16 Let the Lord God of the spirits of all flesh appoint a man ouer the Congregation,
\v 17 Who may goe out and in before them, and leade them out and in, that the Congregation of the Lord be not as sheepe, which haue not a shepheard.
\v 18 And the Lord said vnto Moses, Take thee Ioshua the sonne of Nun, in whom is the Spirite, and put thine handes vpon him,
\v 19 And set him before Eleazar the Priest, and before all the Congregation, and giue him a charge in their sight.
\v 20 And giue him of thy glory, that all the Congregation of ye children of Israel may obey.
\v 21 And he shall stande before Eleazar the Priest, who shall aske counsell for him by the iudgement of Vrim before the Lord: at his worde they shall goe out, and at his worde they shall come in, both he, and all the children of Israel with him and all the Congregation.
\v 22 So Moses did as the Lord had commanded him, and he tooke Ioshua, and set him before Eleazar the Priest, and before all the Congregation.
\v 23 Then he put his handes vpon him, and gaue him a charge, as the Lord had spoken by the hand of Moses.