\c 5
\p
\v 1 Then being iustified by faith, we haue peace toward God through our Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 2 By who also through faith, we haue had this accesse into this grace, wherein we stand, and reioyce vnder ye hope of the glory of God.
\v 3 Neither that onely, but also we reioyce in tribulations, knowing that tribulation bringeth forth patience,
\v 4 And patience experience, and experience hope,
\v 5 And hope maketh not ashamed, because the loue of God is shed abroade in our heartes by the holy Ghost, which is giuen vnto vs.
\v 6 For Christ, when we were yet of no strength, at his time died for the vngodly.
\v 7 Doutles one will scarce die for a righteous man: but yet for a good man it may be that one dare die.
\v 8 But God setteth out his loue towards vs, seeing that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for vs.
\v 9 Much more then, being now iustified by his blood, we shalbe saued from wrath through him.
\v 10 For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Sonne, much more being reconciled, we shalbe saued by his life,
\v 11 And not onely so, but we also reioyce in God through our Lord Iesus Christ, by whom we haue nowe receiued the atonement.
\v 12 Wherefore, as by one man sinne entred into ye world, and death by sinne, and so death went ouer all men: in who all men haue sinned.
\v 13 For vnto the time of the Law was sinne in the worlde, but sinne is not imputed, while there is no lawe.
\v 14 But death reigned from Adam to Moses, euen ouer them also that sinned not after the like maner of that transgression of Adam, which was the figure of him that was to come.
\v 15 But yet the gift is not so, as is the offence: for if through the offence of that one, many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, which is by one man Iesus Christ, hath abounded vnto many.
\v 16 Neither is the gift so, as that which entred in by one that sinned: for the fault came of one offence vnto condemnation: but the gift is of many offences to iustification.
\v 17 For if by the offence of one, death reigned through one, much more shall they which receiue that abundance of grace, and of that gift of that righteousnesse, reigne in life through one, that is, Iesus Christ.
\v 18 Likewise then as by the offence of one, the fault came on all men to condemnation, so by the iustifying of one, the benefite abounded toward all men to the iustification of life.
\v 19 For as by one mans disobedience many were made sinners, so by that obedience of that one shall many also be made righteous.
\v 20 Moreouer the Law entred thereupon that the offence shoulde abound: neuerthelesse, where sinne abounded, there grace abounded much more:
\v 21 That as sinne had reigned vnto death, so might grace also reigne by righteousnesse vnto eternall life, through Iesus Christ our Lord.