\c 4
\p
\v 1 Let vs feare therefore, least at any time by forsaking the promise of entring into his rest, any of you should seeme to be depriued.
\v 2 For vnto vs was the Gospel preached as also vnto them: but the worde that they heard, profited not them, because it was not mixed with faith in those that heard it.
\v 3 For we which haue beleeued, doe enter into rest, as he said to the other, As I haue sworne in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest: although the workes were finished from the foundation of the world.
\v 4 For he spake in a certaine place of the seuenth day on this wise, And God did rest the seuenth day from all his workes.
\v 5 And in this place againe, If they shall enter into my rest.
\v 6 Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter thereinto, and they to whom it was first preached, entred not therein for vnbeliefes sake:
\v 7 Againe he appointed in Dauid a certaine day, by To day, after so long a time, saying, as it is sayd, This day, if ye heare his voyce, harden not your hearts.
\v 8 For if Iesus had giuen them rest, then would he not after this haue spoke of an other day.
\v 9 There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God.
\v 10 For he that is entred into his rest, hath also ceased from his owne works, as God did from his.
\v 11 Let vs studie therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same ensample of disobedience.
\v 12 For the worde of God is liuely, and mightie in operation, and sharper then any two edged sword, and entreth through, euen vnto the diuiding asunder of the soule and the spirit, and of the ioints, and the marow, and is a discerner of the thoughtes, and the intents of the heart.
\v 13 Neither is there any creature, which is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and open vnto his eyes, with whome we haue to doe.
\v 14 Seeing then that wee haue a great hie Priest, which is entred into heauen, euen Iesus the Sonne of God, let vs holde fast our profession.
\v 15 For we haue not an hie Priest, which can not be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all things tempted in like sort, yet without sinne.
\v 16 Let vs therefore goe boldly vnto ye throne of grace, that we may receiue mercy, and finde grace to helpe in time of neede.