\c 19
\p
\v 1 Then Pilate tooke Iesus and scourged him.
\v 2 And the souldiers platted a crowne of thornes, and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple garment,
\v 3 And saide, Haile, King of the Iewes. And they smote him with their roddes.
\v 4 Then Pilate went foorth againe, and said vnto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may knowe, that I finde no fault in him at all.
\v 5 Then came Iesus foorth wearing a crowne of thornes, and a purple garment. And Pilate said vnto them, Beholde the man.
\v 6 Then when the hie Priests and officers sawe him, they cried, saying, Crucifie, crucifie him. Pilate said vnto them, Take yee him and crucifie him: for I finde no fault in him.
\v 7 The Iewes answered him, We haue a lawe, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himselfe the Sonne of God.
\v 8 When Pilate then heard that woorde, he was the more afraide,
\v 9 And went againe into the common hall, and saide vnto Iesus, Whence art thou? But Iesus gaue him none answere.
\v 10 Then saide Pilate vnto him, Speakest thou not vnto me? Knowest thou not that I haue power to crucifie thee, and haue power to loose thee?
\v 11 Iesus answered, Thou couldest haue no power at all against me, except it were giuen thee from aboue: therefore he that deliuered me vnto thee, hath the greater sinne.
\v 12 From thence foorth Pilate sought to loose him, but the Iewes cried, saying, If thou deliuer him, thou art not Cesars friende: for whosoeuer maketh himselfe a King, speaketh against Cesar.
\v 13 When Pilate heard this woorde, hee brought Iesus foorth, and sate downe in the iudgement seate in a place called the Pauement, and in Hebrewe, Gabbatha.
\v 14 And it was the Preparation of the Passeouer, and about the sixt houre: and hee sayde vnto the Iewes, Beholde your King.
\v 15 But they cried, Away with him, away with him, crucifie him. Pilate sayde vnto them, Shall I crucifie your King? The high Priestes answered, We haue no King but Cesar.
\v 16 Then deliuered he him vnto them, to be crucified. And they tooke Iesus, and led him away.
\v 17 And he bare his owne crosse, and came into a place named of dead mens Skulles, which is called in Hebrewe, Golgotha:
\v 18 Where they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side one, and Iesus in the middes.
\v 19 And Pilate wrote also a title, and put it on the crosse, and it was written, JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWES.
\v 20 This title then read many of the Iewes: for the place where Iesus was crucified, was neere to the citie: and it was written in Hebrewe, Greeke and Latine.
\v 21 Then saide the hie Priests of the Iewes to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Iewes, but that he sayd, I am King of the Iewes.
\v 22 Pilate answered, What I haue written, I haue written.
\v 23 Then the souldiers, when they had crucified Iesus, tooke his garments (and made foure partes, to euery souldier a part) and his coat: and the coat was without seame wouen from the toppe throughout.
\v 24 Therefore they sayde one to another, Let vs not deuide it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. This was that the Scripture might be fulfilled, which sayth, They parted my garments among them, and on my coate did cast lots. So the souldiers did these things in deede.
\v 25 Then stoode by the crosse of Iesus his mother, and his mothers sister, Marie the wife of Cleopas, and Marie Magdalene.
\v 26 And when Iesus sawe his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loued, he said vnto his mother, Woman, beholde thy sonne.
\v 27 Then saide he to the disciple, Beholde thy mother: and from that houre, the disciple tooke her home vnto him.
\v 28 After, when Iesus knew that all things were performed, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, he said, I thirst.
\v 29 And there was set a vessell full of vineger: and they filled a spondge with vineger: and put it about an Hyssope stalke, and put it to his mouth.
\v 30 Nowe when Iesus had receiued of the vineger, he saide, It is finished, and bowed his head, and gaue vp the ghost.
\v 31 The Iewes then (because it was the Preparation, that the bodies should not remaine vpon the crosse on the Sabbath day: for that Sabbath was an hie day) besought Pilate that their legges might be broken, and that they might be taken downe.
\v 32 Then came the souldiers and brake the legges of the first, and of the other, which was crucified with Iesus.
\v 33 But when they came to Iesus, and saw that he was dead alreadie, they brake not his legges.
\v 34 But one of the souldiers with a speare pearced his side, and foorthwith came there out blood and water.
\v 35 And he that sawe it, bare recorde, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might beleeue it.
\v 36 For these things were done, that the Scripture shoulde be fulfilled, Not a bone of him shalbe broken.
\v 37 And againe an other Scripture saith, They shall see him whom they haue thrust through.
\v 38 And after these things, Ioseph of Arimathea (who was a disciple of Iesus, but secretly for feare of the Iewes) besought Pilate that he might take downe the bodie of Iesus. And Pilate gaue him licence. He came then and tooke Iesus body.
\v 39 And there came also Nicodemus (which first came to Iesus by night) and brought of myrrhe and aloes mingled together about an hundreth pound.
\v 40 Then tooke they the body of Iesus, and wrapped it in linnen clothes with the odours, as the maner of the Iewes is to burie.
\v 41 And in that place where Iesus was crucified, was a garden, and in the garden a newe sepulchre, wherein was neuer man yet laid.
\v 42 There then laide they Iesus, because of the Iewes Preparation day, for the sepulchre was neere.