\c 53
\p
\v 1 Who will beleeue our report? and to whom is the arme of the Lord reueiled?
\v 2 But hee shall growe vp before him as a branche, and as a roote out of a dry grounde: he hath neither forme nor beautie: when we shall see him, there shall be no forme that wee should desire him.
\v 3 He is despised and reiected of men: he is a man full of sorowes and hath experience of infirmities: we hidde as it were our faces from him: he was despised and we esteemed him not.
\v 4 Surely hee hath borne our infirmities, and caried our sorowes: yet wee did iudge him, as plagued, and smitten of God, and humbled.
\v 5 But hee was wounded for our transgressions, hee was broken for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was vpon him, and with his stripes we are healed.
\v 6 All we like sheepe haue gone astraye: wee haue turned euery one to his owne way, and the Lord hath layed vpon him the iniquitie of vs all.
\v 7 Hee was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet did he not open his mouth: hee is brought as a sheepe to the slaughter, and as a sheepe before her shearer is dumme, so he openeth not his mouth.
\v 8 Hee was taken out from prison, and from iudgement: and who shall declare his age? for he was cut out of the lande of the liuing: for the transgression of my people was he plagued.
\v 9 And he made his graue with the wicked, and with the riche in his death, though hee had done no wickednesse, neither was any deceite in his mouth.
\v 10 Yet the Lord would breake him, and make him subiect to infirmities: when hee shall make his soule an offring for sinne, he shall see his seede and shall prolong his dayes, and the will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand.
\v 11 Hee shall see of the trauaile of his soule, and shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous seruant iustifie many: for hee shall beare their iniquities.
\v 12 Therefore will I giue him a portion with the great, and he shall deuide the spoyle with the strong, because hee hath powred out his soule vnto death: and he was counted with the transgressers, and he bare the sinne of many, and prayed for the trespassers.