\c 45
\p
\v 1 To him that excelleth on Shoshannim a song of love to give instruction, committed to the sonnes of Korah. Mine heart will vtter forth a good matter: I wil intreat in my workes of the King: my tongue is as the pen of a swift writer.
\v 2 Thou art fayrer then the children of men: grace is powred in thy lips, because God hath blessed thee for euer.
\v 3 Gird thy sword vpon thy thigh, O most mightie, to wit, thy worship and thy glory,
\v 4 And prosper with thy glory: ride vpon the worde of trueth and of meekenes and of righteousnes: so thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.
\v 5 Thine arrowes are sharpe to pearce the heart of the Kings enemies: therefore the people shall fall vnder thee.
\v 6 Thy throne, O God, is for euer and euer: the scepter of thy kingdome is a scepter of righteousnesse.
\v 7 Thou louest righteousnes, and hatest wickednesse, because God, euen thy God hath anoynted thee with the oyle of gladnes aboue thy fellowes.
\v 8 All thy garments smelll of myrrhe and aloes, and cassia, when thou commest out of the yuorie palaces, where they haue made thee glad.
\v 9 Kings daugthers were among thine honorable wiues: vpon thy right hand did stand the Queene in a vesture of golde of Ophir.
\v 10 Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine eare: forget also thine owne people and thy fathers house.
\v 11 So shall the King haue pleasure in thy beautie: for he is thy Lord, and reuerence thou him.
\v 12 And the daughter of Tyrus with the rich of the people shall doe homage before thy face with presents.
\v 13 The Kings daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of broydred golde.
\v 14 She shalbe brought vnto the King in raiment of needle worke: the virgins that follow after her, and her companions shall be brought vnto thee.
\v 15 With ioy and gladnes shall they be brought, and shall enter into the Kings palace.
\v 16 In steade of thy fathers shall thy children be: thou shalt make them princes through all the earth.
\v 17 I will make thy Name to be remembred through all generations: therefore shall the people giue thanks vnto thee world without ende.