\c 6
\p
\v 1 Dare any of you, hauing businesse against an other, be iudged vnder the vniust, and not vnder the Saintes?
\v 2 Doe ye not knowe, that the Saintes shall iudge the worlde? If the worlde then shalbe iudged by you, are ye vnworthie to iudge the smallest matters?
\v 3 Knowe ye not that we shall iudge the Angels? howe much more, things that perteine to this life?
\v 4 If then ye haue iudgements of things perteining to this life, set vp them which are least esteemed in the Church.
\v 5 I speake it to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you? no not one, that can iudge betweene his brethren?
\v 6 But a brother goeth to law with a brother, and that vnder the infidels.
\v 7 Nowe therefore there is altogether infirmitie in you, in that yee goe to lawe one with another: why rather suffer ye not wrong? why rather susteine yee not harme?
\v 8 Nay, yee your selues doe wrong, and doe harme, and that to your brethren.
\v 9 Knowe yee not that the vnrighteous shall not inherite the kingdome of God? Be not deceiued: neither fornicatours, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor wantons, nor buggerers,
\v 10 Nor theeues, nor couetous, nor drunkards, nor railers, nor extortioners shall inherite the kingdome of God.
\v 11 And such were some of you: but yee are washed, but yee are sanctified, but yee are iustified in the Name of the Lord Iesus, and by the Spirit of our God.
\v 12 All thinges are lawfull vnto mee, but all thinges are not profitable. I may doe all things, but I will not be brought vnder the power of any thing.
\v 13 Meates are ordeined for the bellie, and the belly for the meates: but God shall destroy both it, and them. Nowe the bodie is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the bodie.
\v 14 And God hath also raised vp the Lord, and shall raise vs vp by his power.
\v 15 Knowe yee not, that your bodies are the members of Christ? shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid.
\v 16 Doe ye not knowe, that he which coupleth himselfe with an harlot, is one body? for two, sayeth he, shalbe one flesh.
\v 17 But hee that is ioyned vnto the Lord, is one spirite.
\v 18 Flee fornication: euery sinne that a man doeth, is without the bodie: but hee that committeth fornication, sinneth against his owne bodie.
\v 19 Knowe yee not, that your body is the temple of the holy Ghost, which is in you, whom ye haue of God? and yee are not your owne.
\v 20 For yee are bought for a price: therefore glorifie God in your bodie, and in your spirit: for they are Gods.