\c 14
\p
\v 1 And it came to passe that when he was entred into the house of one of the chiefe Pharises on the Sabbath day, to eate bread, they watched him.
\v 2 And beholde, there was a certaine man before him, which had the dropsie.
\v 3 Then Iesus answering, spake vnto the Lawyers and Pharises, saying, Is it lawfull to heale on the Sabbath day?
\v 4 And they held their peace. Then he tooke him, and healed him, and let him goe,
\v 5 And answered them, saying, Which of you shall haue an asse, or an oxe fallen into a pit, and wil not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day?
\v 6 And they could not answere him againe to those things.
\v 7 He spake also a parable to the ghestes, when he marked howe they chose out the chiefe roomes, and said vnto them,
\v 8 When thou shalt be bidden of any man to a wedding, set not thy selfe downe in the chiefest place, lest a more honourable man then thou, be bidden of him,
\v 9 And he that bade both him and thee, come, and say to thee, Giue this man roome, and thou then begin with shame to take the lowest roome.
\v 10 But when thou art bidden, goe and sit downe in the lowest roome, that when he that bade thee, cometh, he may say vnto thee, Friende, sit vp hier: then shalt thou haue worship in the presence of them that sit at table with thee.
\v 11 For whosoeuer exalteth himselfe, shall be brought lowe, and he that humbleth himselfe, shall be exalted.
\v 12 Then said he also to him that had bidden him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friendes, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsemen, nor ye riche neighbours, lest they also bid thee againe, and a recompence be made thee.
\v 13 But when thou makest a feast, call ye poore, the maimed, the lame, and the blind,
\v 14 And thou shalt be blessed, because they cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the iust.
\v 15 Nowe when one of them that sate at table, heard these things, he said vnto him, Blessed is he that eateth bread in the kingdome of God.
\v 16 Then saide he to him, A certaine man made a great supper, and bade many,
\v 17 And sent his seruant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come: for all things are nowe readie.
\v 18 But they all with one mind beganne to make excuse: The first saide vnto him, I haue bought a farme, and I must needes goe out and see it: I pray thee, haue me excused.
\v 19 And another said, I haue bought fiue yoke of oxen, and I goe to proue them: I pray thee, haue me excused.
\v 20 And another said, I haue maried a wife, and therefore I can not come.
\v 21 So that seruaunt returned, and shewed his master these thinges. Then was the good man of the house angrie, and said to his seruant, Goe out quickely into the streetes and lanes of the citie, and bring in hither the poore, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blinde.
\v 22 And the seruaunt saide, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is roome.
\v 23 Then the master sayd to the seruaunt, Goe out into the hie wayes, and hedges, and compell them to come in, that mine house may bee filled.
\v 24 For I say vnto you, that none of those men which were bidden, shall taste of my supper.
\v 25 Nowe there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and sayd vnto them,
\v 26 If any man come to mee, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters: yea, and his owne life also, he can not be my disciple.
\v 27 And whosoeuer beareth not his crosse, and commeth after mee, can not bee my disciple.
\v 28 For which of you minding to builde a towre, sitteth not downe before, and counteth the cost, whether hee haue sufficient to performe it,
\v 29 Lest that after he hath laide the foundation, and is not able to performe it, all that behold it, begin to mocke him,
\v 30 Saying, This man began to builde, and was not able to make an end?
\v 31 Or what King going to make warre against another King, sitteth not downe first, and taketh counsell, whether he be able with ten thousande, to meete him that commeth against him with twentie thousand?
\v 32 Or els while hee is yet a great way off, hee sendeth an ambassage, and desireth peace.
\v 33 So likewise, whosoeuer hee be of you, that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple.
\v 34 Salt is good: but if salt haue lost his sauour, wherewith shall it be salted?
\v 35 It is neither meete for the land, nor yet for the dunghill, but men cast it out. He that hath eares to heare, let him heare.