\c 16
\p
\v 1 Afterward all the Congregation of the children of Israel departed from Elim, and came to the wildernes of Sin, (which is betweene Elim and Sinai) the fiftenth day of the second moneth after their departing out of ye land of Egypt.
\v 2 And the whole Congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron in the wildernesse.
\v 3 For the children of Israel sayde to them, Oh that we had dyed by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when wee sate by the flesh pots, when wee ate bread our bellies full: for yee haue brought vs out into this wildernesse, to kill this whole company with famine.
\v 4 Then sayd the Lord vnto Moses, Behold, I wil cause bread to rayne from heauen to you, and the people shall goe out, and gather that that is sufficient for euery day, that I may proue them, whether they wil walke in my Law or no.
\v 5 But the sixt daye they shall prepare that, which they shall bring home, and it shalbe twise as much as they gather dayly.
\v 6 Then Moses and Aaron sayde vnto all the children of Israel, At euen ye shall know, that the Lord brought you out of the land of Egypt:
\v 7 And in the morning ye shall see the glorie of the Lord: for he hath heard your grudgings against the Lord: and what are we that ye haue murmured against vs?
\v 8 Againe Moses sayd, At euen shall the Lord giue you flesh to eate, and in the morning your fil of bread: for the Lord hath heard your murmurings, which ye murmure against him: for what are we? your murmurings are not against vs, but against the Lord.
\v 9 And Moses sayd to Aaron, Say vnto all the Congregation of the children of Israel, Draw neere before the Lord: for he hath heard your murmurings.
\v 10 Now as Aaron spake vnto the whole Congregation of the children of Israel, they looked toward the wildernesse, and beholde, the glory of the Lord appeared in a cloude.
\v 11 (For the Lord had spoken vnto Moses, saying,
\v 12 I haue heard the murmurings of the children of Israel: tell them therefore, and say, At euen ye shall eate flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord your God)
\v 13 And so at euen the quailes came and couered the campe: and in the morning the dewe lay round about the hoste.
\v 14 And when the dewe that was fallen was ascended, beholde, a small round thing was vpon the face of the wildernes, small as the hoare frost on the earth.
\v 15 And when the children of Israel sawe it, they sayde one to another, It is MAN, for they wist not what it was. And Moses sayd vnto them, This is the breade which the Lord hath giuen you to eate.
\v 16 This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded: gather of it euery man according to his eating an Omer for a man according to the number of your persons: euery man shall take for them which are in his tent.
\v 17 And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some lesse.
\v 18 And when they did measure it with an Omer, hee that had gathered much, had nothing ouer, and he that had gathered litle, had no lacke: so euery man gathered according to his eating.
\v 19 Moses then said vnto them, Let no man reserue thereof till morning.
\v 20 Notwithstanding they obeyed not Moses: but some of them reserued of it till morning, and it was full of wormes, and stanke: therefore Moses was angrie with them.
\v 21 And they gathered it euery morning, euery man according to his eating: for when the heate of the sunne came, it was melted.
\v 22 And the sixt day they gathered twise so much bread, two Omers for one man: then all the rulers of the Congregation came and told Moses.
\v 23 And he answered them, This is that, which the Lord hath sayde, To morowe is the rest of the holy Sabbath vnto the Lord: bake that to day which ye wil bake, and seethe that which ye wil seethe, and all that remaineth, lay it vp to be kept till the morning for you.
\v 24 And they laied it vp till the morning, as Moses bade, and it stanke not, neyther was there any worme therein.
\v 25 Then Moses sayde, Eate that to day: for to day is the Sabbath vnto the Lord: to day ye shall not finde it in the fielde.
\v 26 Sixe dayes shall yee gather it, but in the seuenth day is the Sabbath: in it there shalbe none.
\v 27 Notwithstanding, there went out some of the people in ye seuenth day for to gather, and they found none.
\v 28 And the Lord sayde vnto Moses, Howe long refuse yee to keepe my commandements, and my lawes?
\v 29 Beholde, howe the Lord hath giuen you the Sabbath: therefore he giueth you the sixt day bread for two dayes: tary therefore euery man in his place: let no man goe out of his place the seuenth day.
\v 30 So the people rested the seuenth day.
\v 31 And the house of Israel called the name of it, MAN. and it was like to coriander seede, but white: and the taste of it was like vnto wafers made with hony.
\v 32 And Moses said, This is that which the Lord hath commanded, Fill an Omer of it, to keepe it for your posteritie: that they may see the bread wherewith I haue fed you in wildernesse, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt.
\v 33 Moses also said to Aaron, Take a pot and put an Omer full of MAN therein, and set it before the Lord to be kept for your posteritie.
\v 34 As the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laied it vp before the Testimonie to be kept.
\v 35 And the children of Israel did eate MAN fourtie yeres, vntill they came vnto a land inhabited: they did eate MAN vntill they came to the borders of the land of Canaan.
\v 36 The Omer is the tenth part of the Ephah.