\c 30
\p
\v 1 Fvrthermore thou shalt make an altar for sweete perfume, of Shittim wood thou shalt make it.
\v 2 The length therof a cubite and the breadth thereof a cubite (it shalbe foure square) and the height thereof two cubites: the hornes thereof shalbe of the same,
\v 3 And thou shalt ouerlay it with fine golde, both the toppe therof and the sides thereof round about, and his hornes: also thou shalt make vnto it a crowne of gold round about.
\v 4 Besides this thou shalt make vnder this crowne two golden rings on either side: euen on euery side shalt thou make them, that they may be as places for the barres to beare it withall.
\v 5 The which barres thou shalt make of Shittim wood, and shalt couer them with golde.
\v 6 After thou shalt set it before the vaile, that is neere the Arke of Testimonie, before the Merciseate that is vpon the Testimonie, where I will appoynt with thee.
\v 7 And Aaron shall burne thereon sweete incense euery morning: when hee dresseth the lampes thereof, shall he burne it.
\v 8 Likewise at eue, when Aaron setteth vp the lampes thereof, he shall burne incense: this perfume shalbe perpetually before ye Lord, throughout your generations.
\v 9 Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor offring, neither powre any drinke offring thereon.
\v 10 And Aaron shall make reconciliation vpon the hornes of it once in a yere with the blood of the sinne offring in the day of reconciliation: once in the yeere shall hee make reconciliation vpon it throughout your generations: this is most holy vnto the Lord.
\v 11 Afterward the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 12 When thou takest the summe of the children of Israel after their nomber, then they shall giue euery man a redemption of his life vnto the Lord, when thou tellest them, that there bee no plague among the when thou countest them.
\v 13 This shall euery man giue, that goeth into the nomber, halfe a shekel, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie: (a shekel is twentie gerahs) the halfe shekel shalbe an offring to the Lord.
\v 14 All that are nombred from twentie yeere olde and aboue, shall giue an offring to the Lord.
\v 15 The rich shall not passe, and the poore shall not diminish from halfe a shekel, when ye shall giue an offring vnto the Lord, for the redemption of your liues.
\v 16 So thou shalt take the money of the redemption of the children of Israel, and shalt put it vnto the vse of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, that it may be a memoriall vnto the children of Israel before the Lord for the redemption of your liues.
\v 17 Also the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 18 Thou shalt also make a lauer of brasse, and his foote of brasse to wash, and shalt put it betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and shalt put water therein.
\v 19 For Aaron and his sonnes shall wash their hands and their feete thereat.
\v 20 When they go into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, or when they goe vnto the Altar to minister and to make the perfume of ye burnt offring to the Lord, they shall wash themselues with water, lest they die.
\v 21 So they shall wash their handes and their feete that they die not: and this shall be to them an ordinance for euer, both vnto him and to his seede throughout their generations.
\v 22 Also the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 23 Take thou also vnto thee, principall spices of the most pure myrrhe fiue hundreth shekels, of sweete cinamon halfe so much, that is, two hundreth and fiftie, and of sweete calamus, two hundreth, and fiftie:
\v 24 Also of cassia fiue hundreth, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, and of oyle oliue an Hin.
\v 25 So thou shalt make of it the oyle of holie oyntment, euen a most precious oyntment after the arte of the Apothecarie: this shalbe the oyle of holy oyntment.
\v 26 And thou shalt anoynt the Tabernacle of the Congregation therewith, and the Arke of the Testimonie:
\v 27 Also the Table, and al the instruments thereof, and the Candlesticke, with all the instruments thereof, and the altar of incense:
\v 28 Also the Altar of burnt offring with al his instruments, and the lauer and his foote.
\v 29 So thou shalt sanctifie them, and they shalbe most holy: all that shall touch them, shalbe holy.
\v 30 Thou shalt also anoint Aaron and his sonnes, and shalt consecrate them, that they may minister vnto me in the Priests office.
\v 31 Moreouer thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, This shalbe an holy oynting oyle vnto me, throughout your generations.
\v 32 None shall anoynt, mans flesh therewith, neither shall ye make any composition like vnto it: for it is holy, and shalbe holy vnto you.
\v 33 Whosoeuer shall make the like oyntment, or whosoeuer shall put any of it vpon a stranger, euen he shalbe cut off from his people.
\v 34 And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Take vnto thee these spices, pure myrrhe and cleare gumme and galbanum, these odours with pure frankincense, of eche like weight:
\v 35 Then thou shalt make of them perfume composed after the arte of the apothecarie, mingled together, pure and holy.
\v 36 And thou shalt beate it to pouder, and shalt put of it before the Arke of the Testimonie in the Tabernacle of ye Cogregatio, where I wil make appointmet with thee: it shalbe vnto you most holy.
\v 37 And ye shall not make vnto you any composition like this perfume, which thou shalt make: it shalbe vnto thee holy for the Lord.
\v 38 Whosoeuer shall make like vnto that to smelll thereto, euen he shalbe cut off from his people.