\c 59
\p
\v 1 To him that excelleth. Destroy not. A Psalme of David on Michtam. When Saul sent and they did watch the house to kill him. O my God, deliuer mee from mine enemies: defend me from them that rise vp against me.
\v 2 Deliuer me from the wicked doers, and saue me from the bloody men.
\v 3 For loe, they haue layd waite for my soule: the mightie men are gathered against me, not for mine offence, nor for my sinne, O Lord.
\v 4 They runne and prepare themselues without a fault on my part: arise therefore to assist me, and beholde.
\v 5 Euen thou, O Lord God of hostes, O God of Israel awake to visit all the heathen, and be not merciful vnto all that transgresse maliciously. Selah.
\v 6 They goe to and from in the euening: they barke like dogs, and goe about the citie.
\v 7 Behold, they brag in their talke, and swords are in their lips: for, Who, say they, doeth heare?
\v 8 But thou, O Lord, shalt haue them in derision, and thou shalt laugh at all the heathen.
\v 9 He is strong: but I will waite vpon thee: for God is my defence.
\v 10 My mercifull God will preuent me: God wil let me see my desire vpon mine enemies.
\v 11 Slay them not, least my people forget it: but scatter them abroad by thy power, and put them downe, O Lord our shield,
\v 12 For the sinne of their mouth, and the words of their lips: and let them be taken in their pride, euen for their periurie and lies, that they speake.
\v 13 Consume them in thy wrath: consume them that they be no more: and let them knowe that God ruleth in Iaakob, euen vnto the ends of the world. Selah.
\v 14 And in the euening they shall go to and from, and barke like dogs, and go about the citie.
\v 15 They shall runne here and there for meate: and surely they shall not be satisfied, though they tary all night.
\v 16 But I wil sing of thy power, and will prayse thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast bene my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble.
\v 17 Vnto thee, O my Strength, wil I sing: for God is my defence, and my mercifull God.