\c 21
\p
\v 1 And when they drewe neere to Hierusalem, and were come to Bethphage, vnto the mount of the Oliues, then sent Iesus two disciples,
\v 2 Saying to them, Goe into the towne that is ouer against you, and anon yee shall finde an asse bounde, and a colt with her: loose them, and bring them vnto me.
\v 3 And if any man say ought vnto you, say ye, that the Lord hath neede of them, and straightway he will let them goe.
\v 4 All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Prophet, saying,
\v 5 Tell ye the daughter of Sion, Beholde, thy King commeth vnto thee, meeke and sitting vpon an asse, and a colte, the foale of an asse vsed to the yoke.
\v 6 So the disciples went, and did as Iesus had commanded them,
\v 7 And brought the asse and the colt, and put on them their clothes, and set him thereon.
\v 8 And a great multitude spred their garments in the way: and other cut downe branches from the trees, and strawed them in the way.
\v 9 Moreouer, the people that went before, and they also that followed, cried, saying, Hosanna to the Sonne of Dauid, Blessed be hee that commeth in the Name of the Lord, Hosanna thou which art in the highest heauens.
\v 10 And when he was come into Hierusalem, all the citie was mooued, saying, Who is this?
\v 11 And the people said, This is Iesus that Prophet of Nazareth in Galile.
\v 12 And Iesus went into the Temple of God, and cast out all them that solde and bought in the Temple, and ouerthrew the tables of the money chagers, and the seates of them that sold doues,
\v 13 And said to them, it is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer: but ye haue made it a denne of theeues.
\v 14 Then the blinde, and the halt came to him in the Temple, and he healed them.
\v 15 But when the chiefe priestes and Scribes sawe the marueiles that hee did, and the children crying in the Temple, and saying, Hosanna to the Sonne of Dauid, they disdained,
\v 16 And said vnto him, Hearest thou what these say? And Iesus said vnto them, Yea: read ye neuer, By the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast made perfite the praise?
\v 17 So hee left them, and went out of the citie vnto Bethania, and lodged there.
\v 18 And in the morning, as he returned into the citie, he was hungrie,
\v 19 And seeing a figge tree in the way, he came to it, and found nothing thereon, but leaues onely, and said to it, Neuer fruite grow on thee henceforwards. And anon the figge tree withered.
\v 20 And when his disciples saw it, they marueiled, saying, How soone is the figge tree withered!
\v 21 And Iesus answered and said vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, if ye haue faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only doe that, which I haue done to the figge tree, but also if ye say vnto this mountaine, Take thy selfe away, and cast thy selfe into the sea, it shalbe done.
\v 22 And whatsoeuer ye shall aske in prayer, if ye beleeue, ye shall receiue it.
\v 23 And whe he was come into the Temple, the chiefe Priestes, and the Elders of the people came vnto him, as he was teaching, and saide, By what authoritie doest thou these things? and who gaue thee this authoritie?
\v 24 Then Iesus answered and said vnto them, I also will aske of you a certaine thing, which if ye tell me, I likewise will tell you by what authoritie I doe these things.
\v 25 The baptisme of Iohn, whence was it? from heauen, or of men? Then they reasoned among themselues, saying, If we shall say, From heauen, he will say vnto vs, Why did ye not then beleeue him?
\v 26 And if we say, Of men, we feare the multitude, for all holde Iohn as a Prophet.
\v 27 Then they answered Iesus, and said, We can not tell. And he said vnto them, Neither tell I you by what authoritie I doe these things.
\v 28 But what thinke ye? A certaine man had two sonnes, and came to the elder, and saide, Sonne, goe and worke to day in my vineyarde.
\v 29 But he answered, and said, I will not: yet afterward he repented himselfe, and went.
\v 30 Then came he to the second, and said likewise. And he answered, and said, I will, Syr: yet he went not.
\v 31 Whether of them twaine did the will of the father? They saide vnto him, The first. Iesus saide vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, that the Publicanes and the harlots goe before you into the kingdome of God.
\v 32 For Iohn came vnto you in the way of righteousnes, and yee beleeued him not: but the Publicanes, and the harlots beleeued him, and ye, though ye sawe it, were not mooued with repentance afterward, that ye might beleeue him.
\v 33 Heare another parable, There was a certaine housholder, which planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and made a winepresse therein, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a strange countrey.
\v 34 And when the time of the fruite drewe neere, hee sent his seruants to the husbandmen to receiue the fruites thereof.
\v 35 And ye husbandmen tooke his seruants and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.
\v 36 Againe hee sent other seruants, moe then the first: and they did the like vnto them.
\v 37 But last of all he sent vnto them his owne sonne, saying, They will reuerence my sonne.
\v 38 But when the husbandmen saw the sonne, they saide among themselues, This is the heire: come, let vs kill him, and let vs take his inheritance.
\v 39 So they tooke him, and cast him out of the vineyarde, and slewe him.
\v 40 When therefore the Lord of the vineyarde shall come, what will hee doe to those husbandmen?
\v 41 They saide vnto him, Hee will cruelly destroy those wicked men, and will let out his vineyard vnto other husbandmen, which shall deliuer him the fruites in their seasons.
\v 42 Iesus saide vnto them, Read ye neuer in the Scriptures, The stone which the builders refused, the same is made the head of the corner? This was the Lordes doing, and it is marueilous in our eyes.
\v 43 Therefore say I vnto you, The kingdome of God shalbe taken from you, and shalbe giuen to a nation, which shall bring foorth the fruites thereof.
\v 44 And whosoeuer shall fall on this stone, he shalbe broken: but on whomsoeuer it shall fall, it will dash him a pieces.
\v 45 And when the chiefe Priestes and Pharises had heard his parables, they perceiued that hee spake of them.
\v 46 And they seeking to laye handes on him, feared the people, because they tooke him as a Prophet.