\c 8
\p
\v 1 When Samuel was nowe become olde, he made his sonnes Iudges ouer Israel.
\v 2 (And the name of his eldest sonne was Ioel, and the name of the second Abiah) euen Iudges in Beer-sheba.
\v 3 And his sonnes walked not in his wayes, but turned aside after lucre, and tooke rewards, and peruerted the iudgement.
\v 4 Wherefore all the Elders of Israel gathered them together, and came to Samuel vnto Ramah,
\v 5 And said vnto him, Beholde, thou art olde, and thy sonnes walke not in thy wayes: make vs nowe a King to iudge vs like all nations.
\v 6 But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Giue vs a King to iudge vs: and Samuel prayed vnto the Lord.
\v 7 And the Lord said vnto Samuel, Heare the voyce of the people in all that they shall say vnto thee: for they haue not cast thee away, but they haue cast me away, that I should not reigne ouer the.
\v 8 As they haue euer done since I brought them out of Egypt euen vnto this day, (and haue forsaken me, and serued other gods) euen so doe they vnto thee.
\v 9 Nowe therefore hearken vnto their voyce: howbeit yet testifie vnto them, and shewe them the maner of ye King that shall reigne ouer them.
\v 10 So Samuel told all the wordes of the Lord vnto the people that asked a King of him.
\v 11 And he saide, This shall be the maner of the King that shall reigne ouer you: he will take your sonnes, and appoint them to his charets, and to be his horsemen, and some shall runne before his charet.
\v 12 Also he will make them his captaines ouer thousands, and captaines ouer fifties, and to eare his ground, and to reape his haruest, and to make instruments of warre, and the thinges that serue for his charets.
\v 13 He will also take your daughters and make them apoticaries, and cookes, and bakers.
\v 14 And he will take your fieldes, and your vineyardes, and your best Oliue trees, and giue them to his seruants.
\v 15 And he will take the tenth of your seede, and of your vineyards, and giue it to his Eunuches, and to his seruants.
\v 16 And he will take your men seruants, and your maide seruants, and the chiefe of your yong men, and your asses, and put them to his worke.
\v 17 He will take the tenth of your sheepe, and ye shall be his seruants.
\v 18 And ye shall crie out at that day, because of your King, whom ye haue chosen you, and the Lord will not heare you at that day.
\v 19 But the people would not heare the voyce of Samuel, but did say, Nay, but there shall be a King ouer vs.
\v 20 And we also will be like all other nations, and our King shall iudge vs, and goe out before vs, and fight our battels.
\v 21 Therefore when Samuel heard all ye wordes of ye people, he rehearsed the in ye eares of ye Lord.
\v 22 And the Lord saide to Samuel, Hearken vnto their voyce, and make them a King. And Samuel said vnto the men of Israel, Goe euery man vnto his citie.