\c 14
\p
\v 1 The worde of the Lord that came vnto Ieremiah, concerning the dearth.
\v 2 Iudah hath mourned, and the gates thereof are desolate, they haue bene brought to heauinesse vnto the grounde, and the cry of Ierusalem goeth vp.
\v 3 And their nobles haue sent their inferiours to the water, who came to the welles, and founde no water: they returned with their vessels empty: they were ashamed and confounded, and couered their heads.
\v 4 For the grounde was destroyed, because there was no rayne in the earth: the plowmen were ashamed, and couered their heads.
\v 5 Yea, the hinde also calued in the fielde, and forsooke it, because there was no grasse.
\v 6 And the wilde asses did stande in the hygh places, and drew in their winde like dragons their eyes did faile, because there was no grasse.
\v 7 O Lord, though our iniquities testifie against vs, deale with vs according to thy name: for our rebellions are many, we sinned against thee.
\v 8 O the hope of Israel, the sauiour thereof in the time of trouble, why art thou as a strager in ye land, as one that passeth by to tary for a night?
\v 9 Why art thou as a man astonied, and as a strong man that cannot helpe? yet thou, O Lord, art in the middes of vs, and thy Name is called vpon vs: forsake vs not.
\v 10 Thus saith the Lord vnto this people, Thus haue they delited to wander: they haue not refrained their feete, therefore the Lord hath no delight in them: but he will now remember their iniquitie, and visite their sinnes.
\v 11 Then sayd the Lord vnto me, Thou shalt not pray to do this people good.
\v 12 When they fast, I will not heare their cry, and when they offer burnt offering, and an oblation, I will not accept them: but I will consume them by the sworde, and by the famine and by the pestilence.
\v 13 Then answered I, Ah Lord God, beholde, the prophets say vnto them, Ye shall not see the sworde, neither shall famine come vpon you, but I wil giue you assured peace in this place.
\v 14 Then the Lord said vnto me, The prophets prophecie lyes in my Name: I haue not sent them, neither did I command them, neither spake I vnto them, but they prophecie vnto you a false vision, and diuination, and vanitie, and deceitfulnes of their owne heart.
\v 15 Therefore thus saith the Lord, Concerning the prophets that prophecie in my Name, whom I haue not sent, yet they say, Sworde and famine shall not be in this land, by sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed.
\v 16 And the people to whome these prophets doe prophecie, shalbe cast out in the streetes of Ierusalem, because of the famine, and the sword, and there shall be none to bury them, both they, and their wiues, and their sonnes, and their daughters: for I wil powre their wickednes vpon them.
\v 17 Therefore thou shalt say this worde vnto them, Let mine eyes drop downe teares night and day without ceasing: for the virgine daughter of my people is destroyed with a great destruction, and with a sore grieuous plague.
\v 18 For if I go into the field, behold the slaine with the sworde: and if I enter into the citie, behold them that are sicke for hunger also: moreouer the Prophet also and the Priest go a wandring into a land that they know not.
\v 19 Hast thou vtterly reiected Iudah, or hath thy soule abhorred Zion? why hast thou smitten vs, that we cannot be healed? Wee looked for peace, and there is no good, and for the time of health, and behold trouble.
\v 20 We acknowledge, O Lord, our wickednesse and the iniquitie of our fathers: for we haue sinned against thee.
\v 21 Doe not abhorre vs: for thy Names sake cast not downe the throne of thy glory: remember and breake not thy couenant with vs.
\v 22 Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles, that can giue raine? or can the heauens giue showres? is it not thou, O Lord our God? therefore we will waite vpon thee: for thou hast made all these things.