\c 9
\p
\v 1 And Saul yet breathing out threatnings and slaughter against the disciples of ye Lord, went vnto the hie Priest,
\v 2 And desired of him letters to Damascus to the Synagogues, that if he found any that were of that way (either men or women) hee might bring them bound vnto Hierusalem.
\v 3 Now as he iourneyed, it came to passe that as he was come neere to Damascus, suddenly there shined rounde about him a light from heauen.
\v 4 And hee fell to the earth, and heard a voyce, saying to him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?
\v 5 And he sayd, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord sayd, I am Iesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kicke against pricks.
\v 6 He then both trembling and astonied, sayd, Lord, what wilt thou that I doe? And the Lord sayd vnto him, Arise and goe into the citie, and it shall be tolde thee what thou shalt doe.
\v 7 The men also which iourneyed with him, stood amased, hearing his voyce, but seeing no man.
\v 8 And Saul arose from the ground, and opened his eyes, but sawe no man. Then led they him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus,
\v 9 Where he was three dayes without sight, and neither ate nor dranke.
\v 10 And there was a certaine disciple at Damascus named Ananias, and to him sayd the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he sayd, Beholde, I am here Lord.
\v 11 Then the Lord sayd vnto him, Arise, and goe into the streete which is called Straight, and seeke in the house of Iudas after one called Saul of Tarsus: for beholde, he prayeth.
\v 12 (And he sawe in a vision a man named Ananias comming in to him, and putting his hands on him, that he might receiue his sight.)
\v 13 Then Ananias answered, Lord, I haue heard by many of this man, howe much euill hee hath done to thy saints at Hierusalem.
\v 14 Moreouer here hee hath authoritie of the hie Priestes, to binde all that call on thy Name.
\v 15 Then the Lord said vnto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessell vnto me, to beare my Name before the Gentiles, and Kings, and the children of Israel.
\v 16 For I will shewe him, howe many things he must suffer for my Names sake.
\v 17 Then Ananias went his way, and entred into that house, and put his hands on him, and sayd, Brother Saul, the Lord hath sent me (euen Iesus that appeared vnto thee in the way as thou camest) that thou mightest receiue thy sight, and be filled with the holy Ghost.
\v 18 And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had bene scales, and suddenly he receiued sight, and arose, and was baptized,
\v 19 And receiued meate, and was strengthened. So was Saul certaine dayes with the disciples which were at Damascus.
\v 20 And straightway hee preached Christ in the Synagogues, that he was that Sonne of God,
\v 21 So that all that heard him, were amased, and sayde, Is not this hee, that made hauocke of them which called on this Name in Hierusalem, and came hither for that intent, that hee should bring them bound vnto the hie Priests?
\v 22 But Saul encreased the more in strength, and confounded the Iewes which dwelt at Damascus, confirming, that this was that Christ.
\v 23 And after that many dayes were fulfilled, the Iewes tooke counsell together, to kill him,
\v 24 But their laying awayte was knowen of Saul: nowe they watched the gates day and night, that they might kill him.
\v 25 Then the disciples tooke him by night, and put him through the wall, and let him downe by a rope in a basket.
\v 26 And when Saul was come to Hierusalem, he assayed to ioyne himselfe with the disciples: but they were all afrayd of him, and beleeued not that he was a disciple.
\v 27 But Barnabas tooke him, and brought him to the Apostles, and declared to them, howe hee had seene the Lord in the way, and that hee had spoken vnto him, and how he had spoken boldly at Damascus in the Name of Iesus.
\v 28 And hee was conuersant with them at Hierusalem,
\v 29 And spake boldly in the Name of the Lord Iesus, and spake and disputed against the Grecians: but they went about to slay him.
\v 30 But when the brethren knewe it, they brought him to Cesarea, and sent him forth to Tarsus.
\v 31 Then had the Churches rest through all Iudea, and Galile, and Samaria, and were edified and walked in the feare of the Lord, and were multiplied by the comfort of the holy Ghost.
\v 32 And it came to passe, as Peter walked throughout all quarters, hee came also to the saints which dwelt at Lydda.
\v 33 And there he found a certaine man named Aeneas, which had kept his couch eight yeeres, and was sicke of the palsie.
\v 34 Then said Peter vnto him, Aeneas, Iesus Christ maketh thee whole: arise and trusse thy couch together. And he arose immediately.
\v 35 And all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron, sawe him, and turned to the Lord.
\v 36 There was also at Ioppa a certaine woman, a disciple named Tabitha (which by interpretation is called Dorcas) she was full of good workes and almes which she did.
\v 37 And it came to passe in those dayes, that she was sicke and dyed: and when they had washed her, they layd her in an vpper chamber.
\v 38 Now forasmuch as Lydda was neere to Ioppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent vnto him two men, desiring that he would not delay to come vnto them.
\v 39 Then Peter arose and came with them: and when hee was come, they brought him into the vpper chamber, where all the widowes stoode by him weeping, and shewing the coates and garments, which Dorcas made, while she was with them.
\v 40 But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled downe, and prayed, and turned him to the body, and sayd, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes, and when she sawe Peter, sate vp.
\v 41 Then he gaue her the hand and lift her vp, and called the Saints and widowes, and restored her aliue.
\v 42 And it was knowen throughout all Ioppa, and many beleeued in the Lord.
\v 43 And it came to passe that he taried many dayes in Ioppa with one Simon a Tanner.