\c 24
\p
\v 1 Nowe the first day of the weeke early in the morning, they came vnto the sepulchre, and brought the odours, which they had prepared, and certaine women with them.
\v 2 And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre,
\v 3 And went in, but found not the body of the Lord Iesus.
\v 4 And it came to passe, that as they were amased thereat, beholde, two men suddenly stood by them in shining vestures.
\v 5 And as they were afraide, and bowed downe their faces to the earth, they sayd to them, Why seeke ye him that liueth, among the dead?
\v 6 He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake vnto you, when he was yet in Galile,
\v 7 Saying, that the sonne of man must be deliuered into the hands of sinfull men, and be crucified, and the third day rise againe.
\v 8 And they remembred his wordes,
\v 9 And returned from the sepulchre, and tolde all these things vnto the eleuen, and to all the remnant.
\v 10 Now it was Mary Magdalene, and Ioanna, and Mary the mother of Iames, and other women with them, which tolde these things vnto the Apostles.
\v 11 But their wordes seemed vnto them, as a fained thing, neither beleeued they them.
\v 12 Then arose Peter, and ran vnto the sepulchre, and looked in, and saw the linnen clothes laide by themselues, and departed wondering in himselfe at that which was come to passe.
\v 13 And beholde, two of them went that same day to a towne which was from Hierusalem about threescore furlongs, called Emmaus.
\v 14 And they talked together of al these things that were done.
\v 15 And it came to passe, as they communed together, and reasoned, that Iesus himselfe drewe neere, and went with them.
\v 16 But their eyes were holden, that they could not know him.
\v 17 And he sayd vnto them, What maner of communications are these that ye haue one to another as ye walke and are sad?
\v 18 And the one (named Cleopas) answered, and sayd vnto him, Art thou onely a stranger in Hierusalem, and hast not knowen the things which are come to passe therein in these dayes?
\v 19 And he said vnto them, What things? And they sayd vnto him, Of Iesus of Nazareth, which was a Prophet, mightie in deede and in word before God, and all people,
\v 20 And howe the hie Priests, and our rulers deliuered him to be condemned to death, and haue crucified him.
\v 21 But we trusted that it had bene he that should haue deliuered Israel, and as touching all these things, to day is ye third day, that they were done.
\v 22 Yea, and certaine women among vs made vs astonied, which came early vnto the sepulchre.
\v 23 And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seene a vision of Angels, which sayd, that he was aliue.
\v 24 Therefore certaine of them which were with vs, went to the sepulchre, and found it euen so as the women had sayd, but him they saw not.
\v 25 Then he sayd vnto them, O fooles and slowe of heart to beleeue all that the Prophets haue spoken!
\v 26 Ought not Christ to haue suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
\v 27 And he began at Moses, and at all the Prophets, and interpreted vnto them in all the Scriptures the things which were written of him.
\v 28 And they drew neere vnto ye towne, which they went to, but he made as though hee would haue gone further.
\v 29 But they constrained him, saying, Abide with vs: for it is towards night, and the day is farre spent. So he went in to tarie with them.
\v 30 And it came to passe, as hee sate at table with them, he tooke the bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gaue it to them.
\v 31 Then their eyes were opened, and they knewe him: and he was no more seene of them.
\v 32 And they saide betweene themselues, Did not our heartes burne within vs, while he talked with vs by the way, and when he opened to vs the Scriptures?
\v 33 And they rose vp the same houre, and returned to Hierusalem, and found the Eleuen gathered together, and them that were with them,
\v 34 Which said, The Lord is risen in deede, and hath appeared to Simon.
\v 35 Then they tolde what things were done in the way, and howe he was knowen of them in breaking of bread.
\v 36 And as they spake these things, Iesus himselfe stoode in the middes of them, and saide vnto them, Peace be to you.
\v 37 But they were abashed and afraide, supposing that they had seene a spirit.
\v 38 Then he saide vnto them, Why are ye troubled? and wherefore doe doutes arise in your hearts?
\v 39 Beholde mine handes and my feete: for it is I my selfe: handle me, and see: for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me haue.
\v 40 And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and feete.
\v 41 And while they yet beleeued not for ioy, and wondred, he saide vnto them, Haue ye here any meate?
\v 42 And they gaue him a piece of a broyled fish, and of an honie combe,
\v 43 And hee tooke it, and did eate before them.
\v 44 And he saide vnto them, These are the wordes, which I spake vnto you while I was yet with you, that all must be fulfilled which are written of me in the Lawe of Moses, and in the Prophets, and in the Psalmes.
\v 45 Then opened he their vnderstanding, that they might vnderstand the Scriptures,
\v 46 And said vnto them, Thus is it written, and thus it behoued Christ to suffer, and to rise againe from the dead the third day,
\v 47 And that repentance, and remission of sinnes should be preached in his Name among all nations, beginning at Hierusalem.
\v 48 Nowe ye are witnesses of these things.
\v 49 And beholde, I doe sende the promise of my Father vpon you: but tary ye in the citie of Hierusalem, vntill ye be endued with power from an hie.
\v 50 Afterward he lead them out into Bethania, and lift vp his hands, and blessed them.
\v 51 And it came to passe, that as he blessed them, he departed from them, and was caried vp into heauen.
\v 52 And they worshipped him, and returned to Hierusalem with great ioy,
\v 53 And were continually in the Temple, praysing, and lauding God, Amen.