\c 1
\p
\v 1 In the second yeere of King Darius, in the sixt moneth, the first day of the moneth, came ye worde of the Lord (by the ministery of the Prophet Haggai) vnto Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, a prince of Iudah, and to Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest, saying,
\v 2 Thus speaketh the Lord of hostes, saying, This people say, The time is not yet come, that the Lords House should be builded.
\v 3 Then came the worde of the Lord by the ministerie of the Prophet Haggai, saying,
\v 4 Is it time for your selues to dwell in your sieled houses, and this House lie waste?
\v 5 Now therefore thus saith ye Lord of hostes, Consider your owne wayes in your hearts.
\v 6 Ye haue sowen much, and bring in litle: ye eate, but ye haue not ynough: ye drinke, but ye are not filled: ye clothe you, but ye be not warme: and he that earneth wages, putteth the wages into a broken bagge.
\v 7 Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Consider your owne wayes in your hearts.
\v 8 Goe vp to the mountaine, and bring wood, and build this House, and I wil be fauourable in it, and I will be glorified, sayth the Lord.
\v 9 Ye looked for much, and lo, it came to litle: and when ye brought it home, I did blowe vpon it. And why, sayth the Lord of hostes? Because of mine House that is waste, and ye runne euery man vnto his owne house.
\v 10 Therefore the heauen ouer you stayed it selfe from dewe, and the earth stayed her fruite.
\v 11 And I called for a drought vpon the land, and vpon the mountaines, and vpon the corne, and vpon the wine, and vpon the oyle, vpon all that the ground bringeth foorth: both vpon men and vpon cattell, and vpon all the labour of the hands.
\v 12 When Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, and Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest with all the remnant of the people, heard the voyce of the Lord their God, and the wordes of the Prophet Haggai (as the Lord their God had sent him) then the people did feare before the Lord.
\v 13 Then spake Haggai the Lords messenger in the Lords message vnto the people, saying, I am with you, sayth the Lord.
\v 14 And the Lord stirred vp the spirite of Zerubbabel, the sonne of Shealtiel a prince of Iudah, and the spirit of Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came, and did the worke in the House of the Lord of hostes their God.