\c 11
\p
\v 1 Now faith is the grounds of things, which are hoped for, and the euidence of things which are not seene.
\v 2 For by it our elders were well reported of.
\v 3 Through faith we vnderstand that the world was ordeined by the worde of God, so that the things which we see, are not made of things which did appeare.
\v 4 By faith Abel offered vnto God a greater sacrifice then Cain, by the which he obtained witnes that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: by the which faith also he being dead, yet speaketh.
\v 5 By faith was Enoch translated, that he should not see death: neither was he found: for God had translated him: for before he was translated, he was reported of, that he had pleased God.
\v 6 But without faith it is vnpossible to please him: for he that commeth to God, must beleeue that God is, and that he is a rewarder of them that seeke him.
\v 7 By faith Noe being warned of God of the things which were as yet not seene, mooued with reuerence, prepared the Arke to the sauing of his housholde, through the which Arke hee condemned the world, and was made heire of the righteousnes, which is by faith.
\v 8 By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed God, to goe out into a place, which hee should afterward receiue for inheritance, and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
\v 9 By faith he abode in the land of promise, as in a strange countrey, as one that dwelt in tents with Isaac and Iacob heires with him of the same promise.
\v 10 For he looked for a citie hauing a foundation, whose builder and maker is God.
\v 11 Through faith Sara also receiued strength to conceiue seede, and was deliuered of a childe when she was past age, because she iudged him faithfull which had promised.
\v 12 And therefore sprang there of one, euen of one which was dead, so many as the starres of the skie in multitude, and as the land of the sea shore which is innumerable.
\v 13 All these died in faith, and receiued not the promises, but sawe them a farre off, and beleeued them, and receiued them thankefully, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.
\v 14 For they that say such things, declare plainely, that they seeke a countrey.
\v 15 And if they had bene mindfull of that countrey, from whence they came out, they had leasure to haue returned.
\v 16 But nowe they desire a better, that is an heauenly: wherefore God is not ashamed of them to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a citie.
\v 17 By faith Abraham offered vp Isaac, when he was tryed, and he that had receiued the promises, offered his onely begotten sonne.
\v 18 (To whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seede be called.)
\v 19 For he considered that God was able to raise him vp euen from the dead: from whence he receiued him also after a sort.
\v 20 By faith Isaac blessed Iacob and Esau, concerning things to come.
\v 21 By faith Iacob when he was a dying, blessed both the sonnes of Ioseph, and leaning on the ende of his staffe, worshipped God.
\v 22 By faith Ioseph when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel, and gaue commandement of his bones.
\v 23 By faith Moses when he was borne, was hid three moneths of his parents, because they sawe he was a proper childe, neither feared they the kings commandement.
\v 24 By faith Moses when he was come to age, refused to be called the sonne of Pharaohs daughter,
\v 25 And chose rather to suffer aduersitie with the people of God, then to enioy the pleasures of sinnes for a season,
\v 26 Esteeming the rebuke of Christ greater riches then the treasures of Egypt: for he had respect vnto the recompence of the reward.
\v 27 By faith he forsooke Egypt, and feared not the fiercenes of the king: for he endured, as he that sawe him which is inuisible.
\v 28 Through faith he ordeined the Passeouer and the effusion of blood, least he that destroyed the first borne, should touche them.
\v 29 By faith they passed through the red sea as by drie land, which when the Egyptians had assayed to doe, they were swallowed vp.
\v 30 By faith the walles of Iericho fell downe after they were copassed about seue dayes.
\v 31 By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them which obeyed not, when she had receiued the spies peaceably.
\v 32 And what shall I more say? for the time would be too short for me to tell of Gedeon, of Barac, and of Sampson, and of Iephte, also of Dauid, and Samuel, and of the Prophets:
\v 33 Which through faith subdued kingdomes, wrought righteousnesse, obteined the promises, stopped the mouthes of lions,
\v 34 Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sworde, of weake were made strong, waxed valiant in battell, turned to flight the armies of the aliants.
\v 35 The women receiued their dead raised to life: other also were racked, and woulde not be deliuered, that they might receiue a better resurrection.
\v 36 And others haue bene tryed by mockings and scourgings, yea, moreouer by bondes and prisonment.
\v 37 They were stoned, they were hewen asunder, they were tempted, they were slaine with the sworde, they wandred vp and downe in sheepes skinnes, and in goates skinnes, being destitute, afflicted, and tormented:
\v 38 Whom the world was not worthie of: they wandered in wildernesses and mountaines, and dennes, and caues of the earth.
\v 39 And these all through faith obteined good report, and receiued not the promise,
\v 40 God prouiding a better thing for vs, that they without vs should not be made perfite.