\c 19
\p
\v 1 And in the euening there came two Angels to Sodom: and Lot sate at the gate of Sodom, and Lot sawe them, and rose vp to meete them, and he bowed himselfe with his face to the ground.
\v 2 And he saide, See my Lords, I pray you turne in nowe into your seruants house, and tarie all night, and wash your feete, and ye shall rise vp early and goe your wayes. Who saide, Nay, but we will abide in the streete all night.
\v 3 Then he preassed vpon them earnestly, and they turned in to him, and came to his house, and he made them a feast, and did bake vnleauened bread, and they did eate.
\v 4 But before they went to bed, the men of the citie, euen the men of Sodom compassed the house rounde about from the yong euen to the olde, all the people from all quarters.
\v 5 Who crying vnto Lot said to him, Where are the men, which came to thee this night? bring them out vnto vs that we may knowe them.
\v 6 Then Lot went out at the doore vnto them, and shut the doore after him,
\v 7 And said, I pray you, my brethren, do not so wickedly.
\v 8 Beholde nowe, I haue two daughters, which haue not knowen man: them will I bring out now vnto you, and doe to them as seemeth you good: onely vnto these men doe nothing: for therefore are they come vnder the shadowe of my roofe.
\v 9 Then they said, Away hence, and they said, He is come alone as a stranger, and shall he iudge and rule? we will nowe deale worse with thee then with them. So they preassed sore vpon Lot himselfe, and came to breake the doore.
\v 10 But the men put forth their hand and pulled Lot into the house to them and shut to ye doore.
\v 11 Then they smote the men that were at the doore of the house with blindnes both small and great, so that they were wearie in seeking the doore.
\v 12 Then the men said vnto Lot, Whom hast thou yet here? either sonne in lawe, or thy sonnes, or thy daughters, or whatsoeuer thou hast in the citie, bring it out of this place.
\v 13 For we will destroy this place, because the crye of them is great before the Lord, and the Lord hath sent vs to destroy it.
\v 14 Then Lot went out and spake vnto his sonnes in lawe, which maried his daughters, and said, Arise, get you out of this place: for the Lord will destroy the citie: but he seemed to his sonnes in lawe as though he had mocked.
\v 15 And when the morning arose, the Angels hasted Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters which are here, lest thou be destroyed in the punishment of the citie.
\v 16 And as he prolonged the time, the men caught both him and his wife, and his two daughters by the hands (the Lord being mercifull vnto him) and they brought him foorth, and set him without the citie.
\v 17 And when they had brought them out, the Angel said, Escape for thy life: looke not behinde thee, neither tarie thou in all the plaine: escape into ye mountaine, least thou be destroyed.
\v 18 And Lot saide vnto them, Not so, I pray thee, my Lord.
\v 19 Behold now, thy seruant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy mercie, which thou hast shewed vnto me in sauing my life: and I cannot escape in the mountaine, least some euill take me, and I die.
\v 20 See nowe this citie hereby to flee vnto, which is a litle one: Oh let me escape thither: is it not a litle one, and my soule shall liue?
\v 21 Then he said vnto him, Beholde, I haue receiued thy request also concerning this thing, that I will not ouerthrow this citie, for the which thou hast spoken.
\v 22 Haste thee, saue thee there: for I can doe nothing till thou be come thither. Therefore the name of the citie was called Zoar.
\v 23 The sunne did rise vpon the earth, when Lot entred into Zoar.
\v 24 Then the Lord rained vpon Sodom and vpon Gomorah brimstone, and fire from the Lord out of heauen,
\v 25 And ouerthrewe those cities and all the plaine, and all the inhabitants of the cities; and that that grewe vpon the earth.
\v 26 Now his wife behind him looked backe, and she became a pillar of salt.
\v 27 And Abraham rising vp earely in ye morning went to the place, where he had stand before the Lord,
\v 28 And looking towarde Sodom and Gomorah and toward all the land of the plaine, behold, he sawe the smoke of the lande mounting vp as the smoke of a fornace.
\v 29 But yet when God destroyed the cities of the plaine, God thought vpon Abraham, and sent Lot out from the middes of the destruction, when he ouerthrewe the cities, wherein Lot dwelled.
\v 30 Then Lot went vp from Zoar, and dwelt in the mountaine with his two daughters: for he feared to tarie in Zoar, but dwelt in a caue, he, and his two daughters.
\v 31 And the elder saide vnto the yonger, Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth, to come in vnto vs after the maner of all ye earth.
\v 32 Come, wee will make our father drinke wine, and lie with him, that we may preserue seede of our father.
\v 33 So they made their father drinke wine that night, and the elder went and lay with her father: but he perceiued not, neither whe she lay downe, neither when she rose vp.
\v 34 And on the morowe the elder saide to the yonger, Behold, yester night lay I with my father: let vs make him drinke wine this night also, and goe thou and lie with him, that we may preserue seede of our father.
\v 35 So they made their father drinke wine that night also, and the yonger arose, and lay with him, but he perceiued not, when she lay downe, neither when she rose vp.
\v 36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with childe by their father.
\v 37 And the elder bare a sonne, and she called his name Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites vnto this day.
\v 38 And the yonger bare a sonne also, and she called his name Ben-ammi: the same is the father of the Ammonites vnto this day.