\c 14
\p
\v 1 Then sent Hiram the King of Tyrus messengers to Dauid, and cedar trees, with masons and carpenters to builde him an house.
\v 2 Therefore Dauid knewe that the Lord had confirmed him King ouer Israel, and that his kingdome was lift vp on hie, because of his people Israel.
\v 3 Also Dauid tooke moe wiues at Ierusalem, and Dauid begate moe sonnes and daughters.
\v 4 And these are the names of the children which he had at Ierusalem, Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Salomon,
\v 5 And Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpalet,
\v 6 And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Iaphia,
\v 7 And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.
\v 8 But when the Philistims heard that Dauid was anointed King ouer Israel, all the Philistims came vp to seeke Dauid. And when Dauid heard, he went out against them.
\v 9 And the Philistims came, and spred them selues in the valley of Rephaim.
\v 10 Then Dauid asked counsel at God, saying, Shall I goe vp against the Philistims, and wilt thou deliuer them into mine hande? And the Lord saide vnto him, Goe vp: for I will deliuer them into thine hande.
\v 11 So they came vp to Baal-perazim, and Dauid smote them there: and Dauid said, God hath deuided mine enemies with mine hande, as waters are deuided: therefore they called the name of that place, Baal-perazim.
\v 12 And there they had left their gods: and Dauid said, Let them euen be burnt with fire.
\v 13 Againe the Philistims came and spread them selues in the valley.
\v 14 And when Dauid asked againe counsell at God, God said to him, Thou shalt not goe vp after them, but turne away from them, that thou mayest come vpon them ouer against the mulberie trees.
\v 15 And when thou hearest the noyse of one going in the toppes of the mulberie trees, then goe out to battel: for God is gone foorth before thee, to smite the hoste of the Philistims.
\v 16 So Dauid did as God had commanded him: and they smote the hoste of the Philistims from Gibeon euen to Gezer.
\v 17 And the fame of Dauid went out into all landes, and the Lord brought the feare of him vpon all nations.