\c 18
\p
\v 1 And he spake also a parable vnto them, to this ende, that they ought alwayes to pray, and not to waxe faint,
\v 2 Saying, There was a iudge in a certaine citie, which feared not God, neither reuereced man.
\v 3 And there was a widowe in that citie, which came vnto him, saying, Doe mee iustice against mine aduersarie.
\v 4 And hee would not of a long time: but afterward he said with himselfe, Though I feare not God, nor reuerence man,
\v 5 Yet because this widowe troubleth mee, I will doe her right, lest at the last shee come and make me wearie.
\v 6 And the Lord said, Heare what the vnrighteous iudge saith.
\v 7 Now shall not God auenge his elect, which cry day and night vnto him, yea, though he suffer long for them?
\v 8 I tell you he will auenge them quickly: but when the Sonne of man commeth, shall he finde faith on the earth?
\v 9 He spake also this parable vnto certaine which trusted in themselues that they were iust, and despised other.
\v 10 Two men went vp into the Temple to pray: the one a Pharise, and the other a Publican.
\v 11 The Pharise stoode and prayed thus with himselfe, O God, I thanke thee that I am not as other men, extortioners, vniust, adulterers, or euen as this Publican.
\v 12 I fast twise in the weeke: I giue tithe of all that euer I possesse.
\v 13 But the Publican standing a farre off, woulde not lift vp so much as his eyes to heauen, but smote his brest, saying, O God, be mercifull to me a sinner.
\v 14 I tell you, this man departed to his house iustified, rather then the other: for euery man that exalteth himselfe, shall be brought lowe, and he that humbleth himselfe, shalbe exalted.
\v 15 They brought vnto him also babes that he should touche them. And when his disciples sawe it, they rebuked them.
\v 16 But Iesus called them vnto him, and said, Suffer the babes to come vnto mee, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdome of God.
\v 17 Verely I say vnto you, whosoeuer receiueth not the kingdome of God as a babe, he shall not enter therein.
\v 18 Then a certaine ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what ought I to doe, to inherite eternall life?
\v 19 And Iesus said vnto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, saue one, euen God.
\v 20 Thou knowest the comandements, Thou shalt not commit adulterie: Thou shalt not kill: Thou shalt not steale: Thou shalt not beare false witnes: Honour thy father and thy mother.
\v 21 And hee saide, All these haue I kept from my youth.
\v 22 Nowe when Iesus heard that, he saide vnto him, Yet lackest thou one thing. Sell all that euer thou hast, and distribute vnto the poore, and thou shalt haue treasure in heauen, and come follow mee.
\v 23 But when he heard those things, he was very heauie: for he was marueilous riche.
\v 24 And when Iesus sawe him very sorowfull, he said, With what difficultie shall they that haue riches, enter into the kingdome of God!
\v 25 Surely it is easier for a camel to go through a needles eye, then for a riche man to enter into the kingdome of God.
\v 26 Then said they that heard it, And who then can be saued?
\v 27 And he said, The things which are vnpossible with men, are possible with God.
\v 28 Then Peter said, Loe, we haue left all, and haue followed thee.
\v 29 And he said vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, there is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children for the kingdome of Gods sake,
\v 30 Which shall not receiue much more in this world, and in the world to come life euerlasting.
\v 31 Then Iesus tooke vnto him ye twelue, and said vnto them, Beholde, we goe vp to Hierusalem, and all things shalbe fulfilled to the Sonne of man, that are writttn by the Prophets.
\v 32 For he shall be deliuered vnto the Gentiles, and shalbe mocked, and shalbe spitefully entreated, and shalbe spitted on.
\v 33 And when they haue scourged him, they will put him to death: but the thirde day hee shall rise againe.
\v 34 But they vnderstood none of these things, and this saying was hidde from them, neither perceiued they the things, which were spoken.
\v 35 And it came to passe, that as he was come neere vnto Iericho, a certaine blinde man sate by the way side, begging.
\v 36 And when he heard the people passe by, he asked what it meant.
\v 37 And they saide vnto him, that Iesus of Nazareth passed by.
\v 38 Then hee cried, saying, Iesus the Sonne of Dauid, haue mercie on me.
\v 39 And they which went before, rebuked him that he shoulde holde his peace, but he cried much more, O Sone of Dauid, haue mercie on me.
\v 40 And Iesus stoode stil, and commanded him to be brought vnto him. And when he was come neere, he asked him,
\v 41 Saying, What wilt thou that I doe vnto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receiue my sight.
\v 42 And Iesus said vnto him, Receiue thy sight: thy faith hath saued thee.
\v 43 Then immediatly he receiued his sight, and followed him, praysing God: and all the people, when they sawe this, gaue praise to God.