\c 9
\p
\v 1 Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Go to Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Ebrewes, Let my people go, that they may serue me.
\v 2 But if thou refuse to let them goe, and wilt yet holde them still,
\v 3 Beholde, the hande of the Lord is vpon thy flocke which is in the fielde: for vpon the horses, vpon the asses, vpon the camels, vpon the cattell, and vpon the sheepe shalbe a mightie great moraine.
\v 4 And the Lord shall doe wonderfully betweene the beastes of Israel, and the beastes of Egypt: so that there shall nothing dye of all, that pertaineth to the children of Israel.
\v 5 And the Lord appointed a time, saying, To morowe the Lord shall finish this thing in this lande.
\v 6 So the Lord did this thing on the morow, and all the cattel of Egypt dyed: but of the cattell of the children of Israel dyed not one.
\v 7 Then Pharaoh sent, and beholde, there was not one of the cattell of the Israelites dead: and the heart of Pharaoh was obstinate, and hee did not let the people goe.
\v 8 And the Lord said to Moses and to Aaron, Take your handfull of ashes of the fornace, and Moses shall sprinkle them towarde the heauen in the sight of Pharaoh,
\v 9 And they shall be turned to dust in all the land of Egypt: and it shalbe as a scab breaking out into blisters vpon man, and vpon beast, thorow out all the land of Egypt.
\v 10 Then they tooke ashes of the fornace, and stoode before Pharaoh: and Moses sprinkled them towarde the heauen, and there came a scab breaking out into blisters vpon man, and vpon beast.
\v 11 And the sorcerers could not stande before Moses, because of the scab: for the scab was vpon the enchanters, and vpon all the Egyptians.
\v 12 And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not vnto them, as the Lord had said vnto Moses.
\v 13 Also the Lord said vnto Moses, Rise vp early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Ebrewes, Let my people goe, that they may serue me.
\v 14 For I will at this time send all my plagues vpon thine heart, and vpon thy seruants, and vpon thy people, that thou mayest knowe that there is none like me in all the earth.
\v 15 For nowe I will stretch out mine hande, that I may smite thee and thy people with the pestilence: and thou shalt perish from the earth.
\v 16 And in deede, for this cause haue I appointed thee, to shewe my power in thee, and to declare my Name throughout all the world.
\v 17 Yet thou exaltest thy selfe against my people, and lettest them not goe.
\v 18 Beholde, to morowe this time I will cause to raine a mightie great haile, such as was not in Egypt since the foundation thereof was laid vnto this time.
\v 19 Send therefore nowe, and gather the cattell, and all that thou hast in the fielde: for vpon all the men, and the beastes, which are found in the field, and not brought home, the haile shall fall vpon them, and they shall die.
\v 20 Such then as feared the word of the Lord among the seruants of Pharaoh, made his seruants and his cattell flee into the houses:
\v 21 But such as regarded not the worde of the Lord, left his seruants, and his cattell in the fielde.
\v 22 And the Lord saide to Moses, Stretche foorth thine hande towarde heauen, that there may be haile in all the land of Egypt, vpon man, and vpon beast, and vpon all the herbes of the fielde in the lande of Egypt.
\v 23 Then Moses stretched out his rod towarde heauen, and the Lord sent thunder and haile, and lightening vpon the ground: and the Lord caused haile to raine vpon the land of Egypt.
\v 24 So there was haile, and fire mingled with the haile, so grieuous, as there was none throughout all the lande of Egypt, since it was a nation.
\v 25 And the haile smote throughout al ye land of Egypt all that was in the fielde, both man and beast: also ye haile smote all the herbes of ye field, and brake to pieces all the trees of the fielde.
\v 26 Onely in the lande of Goshen (where the children of Israel were) was no haile.
\v 27 Then Pharaoh sent and called for Moses and Aaron, and said vnto them, I haue now sinned: the Lord is righteous, but I and my people are wicked.
\v 28 Pray ye vnto the Lord (for it is ynough) that there be no more mightie thunders and haile, and I will let you goe, and yee shall tarie no longer.
\v 29 Then Moses saide vnto him, Assoone as I am out of the citie, I will spreade mine hands vnto the Lord, and the thunder shall cease, neither shall there be any more haile, that thou mayest knowe that the earth is the Lordes.
\v 30 As for thee and thy seruants, I knowe afore I pray ye will feare before the face of the Lord God.
\v 31 (And the flaxe, and the barley were smitten: for the barley was eared, and the flaxe was bolled.
\v 32 But the wheat and the rye were not smitten, for they were hid in the grounde)
\v 33 Then Moses went out of the citie from Pharaoh, and spred his hands to the Lord, and the thunder and the haile ceased, neither rained it vpon the earth.
\v 34 And when Pharaoh sawe that the raine and the haile and the thunder were ceased, hee sinned againe, and hardened his heart, both he, and his seruants.
\v 35 So the heart of Pharaoh was hardened: neither would he let the children of Israel goe, as the Lord had said by Moses.