\c 13
\p
\v 1 Let euery soule be subiect vnto the higher powers: for there is no power but of God: and the powers that be, are ordeined of God.
\v 2 Whosoeuer therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist, shall receiue to themselues condemnation.
\v 3 For Magistrates are not to be feared for good workes, but for euill. Wilt thou then bee without feare of the power? doe well: so shalt thou haue praise of the same.
\v 4 For he is ye minister of God for thy wealth, but if thou do euill, feare: for he beareth not the sworde for nought: for he is the minister of God to take vengeance on him that doeth euill.
\v 5 Wherefore ye must bee subiect, not because of wrath only, but also for conscience sake.
\v 6 For, for this cause ye pay also tribute: for they are Gods ministers, applying themselues for the same thing.
\v 7 Giue to all men therefore their duetie: tribute, to whome yee owe tribute: custome, to whom custome: feare, to whome feare: honour, to whom ye owe honour.
\v 8 Owe nothing to any man, but to loue one another: for he that loueth another, hath fulfilled the Lawe.
\v 9 For this, Thou shalt not commit adulterie, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steale, Thou shalt not beare false witnes, Thou shalt not couet: and if there be any other commandement, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, euen in this, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe.
\v 10 Loue doeth not euill to his neighbour: therefore is loue the fulfilling of the Lawe.
\v 11 And that, considering the season, that it is now time that we should arise from sleepe: for now is our saluation neerer, then when we beleeued it.
\v 12 The night is past, and the day is at hande, let vs therefore cast away the workes of darkenesse, and let vs put on the armour of light,
\v 13 So that wee walke honestly, as in the day: not in gluttonie, and drunkennesse, neither in chambering and wantonnes, nor in strife and enuying.
\v 14 But put yee on the Lord JESUS CHRIST, and take no thought for the flesh, to fulfill the lustes of it.