\c 26
\p
\v 1 And so after the plague, the Lord spake vnto Moses, and to Eleazar the sonne of Aaron the Priest, saying,
\v 2 Take the nomber of all the Congregation of the children of Israel from twentie yeere olde and aboue throughout their fathers houses, all that go forth to warre in Israel.
\v 3 So Moses and Eleazar the Priest spake vnto them in the plaine of Moab, by Iorden towarde Iericho, saying,
\v 4 From twentie yeere olde and aboue ye shall nomber the people, as the Lord had commanded Moses, and the childre of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.
\v 5 Reuben the first borne of Israel: the children of Reube were: Hanoch, of whom came the familie of the Hanochites, and of Pallu the familie of the Palluites:
\v 6 Of Hesron, the familie of the Hesronites: of Carmi, the familie of the Carmites.
\v 7 These are the families of the Reubenites: and they were in nomber three and fourtie thousand, seuen hundreth and thirtie.
\v 8 And the sonnes of Pallu, Eliab:
\v 9 And the sonnes of Eliab, Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram: this Dathan and Abiram were famous in the Congregation, and stroue against Moses and against Aaron in the assemblie of Korah, when they stroue against the Lord.
\v 10 And the earth opened her mouth, and swalowed them vp with Korah, when the Congregation died, what time the fire consumed, two hundreth and fiftie men, who were for a signe.
\v 11 Notwithstanding, all the sonnes of Korah dyed not.
\v 12 And the children of Simeon after their families were: Nemuel, of whom came the familie of the Nemuelites: of Iamin, the familie of the Iaminites: of Iachin, the familie of the Iachinites:
\v 13 Of Zerah, the familie of the Zarhites: of Shaul, the familie of the Shaulites.
\v 14 These are the families of the Simeonites: two and twentie thousand and two hundreth.
\v 15 The sonnes of Gad after their families were: Zephon, of whome came ye familie of the Zephonites: of Haggi, the familie of the Haggites: of Shuni, the familie of the Shunites:
\v 16 Of Ozni, the familie of the Oznites: of Eri, the familie of the Erites:
\v 17 Of Arod, the familie of the Arodites: of Areli, the familie of the Arelites.
\v 18 These are the families of the sonnes of Gad, according to their nombers, fourtie thousand and fiue hundreth.
\v 19 The sonnes of Iudah, Er and Onan: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
\v 20 So were the sonnes of Iudah after their families: of Shelah came the familie of ye Shelanites: of Pharez, the familie of the Pharzites, of Zerah, the familie of the Zarhites.
\v 21 And the sonnes of Pharez were: of Hesron, the familie of the Hesronites: of Hamul, the familie of the Hamulites.
\v 22 These are the families of Iudah, after their nombers, seuentie and sixe thousande and fiue hundreth.
\v 23 The sonnes of Issachar, after their families were: Tola, of whom came the familie of the Tolaites: of Pua, the familie of the Punites:
\v 24 Of Iashub the familie of the Iashubites: of Shimron, the familie of the Shimronites.
\v 25 These are the families of Issachar, after their nombers, threescore and foure thousand and three hundreth.
\v 26 The sonnes of Zebulun, after their families were: of Sered, the familie of the Sardites: of Elon, the familie of the Elonites: of Iahleel, the familie of the Iahleelites.
\v 27 These are the families of the Zebulunites, after their nombers, three score thousande and fiue hundreth.
\v 28 The sonnes of Ioseph, after their families were Manasseh and Ephraim.
\v 29 The sonnes of Manasseh were: of Machir, the familie of the Machirites: and Machir begate Gilead: of Gilead came the familie of the Gileadites.
\v 30 These are the sonnes of Gilead: of Iezer, the familie of the Iezerites: of Helek, the familie of the Helekites.
\v 31 Of Asriel, the familie of the Asrielites: of Shechem, the familie of Shichmites.
\v 32 Of Shemida, the familie of the Shemidaites: of Hepher, the familie of the Hepherites.
\v 33 And Zelophehad the sonne of Hepher had no sonnes, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah.
\v 34 These are the families of Manasseh, and the nomber of them, two and fiftie thousand and seuen hundreth.
\v 35 These are the sonnes of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelah came the familie of the Shuthalhites: of Becher, the familie of the Bachrites: of Tahan, the familie of the Tahanites.
\v 36 And these are the sonnes of Shuthelah: of Eran the familie of the Eranites.
\v 37 These are the families of the sonnes of Ephraim after their nombers, two and thirtie thousand and fiue hundreth. these are the sonnes of Ioseph after their families.
\v 38 These are the sonnes of Beniamin after their families: of Bela came the familie of the Belaites: of Ashbel, the familie of the Ashbelites: of Ahiram, the familie of the Ahiramites:
\v 39 Of Shupham, the familie of the Suphamites: of Hupham, the familie of the Huphamites.
\v 40 And the sonnes of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard came the familie of the Ardites, of Naaman, the familie of the Naamites.
\v 41 These are the sonnes of Beniamin after their families, and their nombers, fiue and fourtie thousand and sixe hundreth.
\v 42 These are the sonnes of Dan after their families: of Shuham came the familie of the Shuhamites: these are the families of Dan after their housholdes.
\v 43 All the families of the Shuhamites were after their nombers, threescore and foure thousand, and foure hundreth.
\v 44 The sonnes of Asher after their families were: of Iimnah, the familie of the Iimnites: of Isui, the familie of the Isuites: of Beriah, the familie of the Berijtes.
\v 45 The sonnes of Beriah were, of Heber the familie of the Heberites: of Malchiel, the familie of the Malchielites.
\v 46 And the name of the daughter of Asher was Sarah.
\v 47 These are the families of the sonnes of Asher after their nombers, three and fifty thousand and foure hundreth.
\v 48 The sonnes of Naphtali, after their families were: of Iahzeel, the families of the Iahzeelites: of Guni, the familie of the Gunites.
\v 49 Of Iezer, the familie of the Izrites: of Shillem, the familie of the Shillemites.
\v 50 These are the families of Naphtali according to their housholdes, and their nomber, fiue and fourtie thousande and foure hundreth.
\v 51 These are the nombers of the children of Israel: sixe hundreth and one thousand, seuen hundreth and thirtie.
\v 52 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 53 Vnto these the land shalbe deuided for an inheritance, according to the nomber of names.
\v 54 To many thou shalt giue the more inheritance, and to fewe thou shalt giue lesse inheritance: to euery one according to his nomber shalbe giuen his inheritance.
\v 55 Notwithstanding, the land shalbe deuided by lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherite:
\v 56 According to the lot shall the possession thereof be deuided betweene many and fewe.
\v 57 These also are the nobers of ye Leuites, after their families: of Gershon came ye familie of the Gershonites: of Kohath, ye familie of the Kohathites: of Merari, the familie of the Merarites.
\v 58 These are the families of Leui, the familie of the Libnites: the familie of the Hebronites: the familie of the Mahlites: the familie of the Mushites: the familie of the Korhites: and Kohath begate Amram.
\v 59 And Amrams wife was called Iochebed the daughter of Leui, which was borne vnto Leui in Egypt: and she bare vnto Amram Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam their sister.
\v 60 And vnto Aaron were borne Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
\v 61 And Nadab and Abihu dyed, because they offred strange fire before the Lord.
\v 62 And their nombers were three and twentie thousand, all males from a moneth old and aboue: for they were not nombred among the children of Israel, because there was none inheritance giuen them among the children of Israel.
\v 63 These are the nombers of Moses and Eleazar the Priest which nombred the children of Israel in the plaine of Moab, neere Iorden, towarde Iericho.
\v 64 And among these there was not a man of them, whome Moses and Aaron the Priest nobred, when they tolde the children of Israel in the wildernes of Sinai.
\v 65 For the Lord said of them, They shall die in the wildernes: so there was not left a man of them, saue Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun.