\c 1
\p
\v 1 The Lord spake againe vnto Moses in the wildernesse of Sinai, in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, in the first day of the second moneth, in the second yere after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
\v 2 Take ye the summe of all the Congregation of the children of Israel, after their families, and housholdes of their fathers with the nomber of their names: to wit, all the males, man by man:
\v 3 From twentie yere olde and aboue, all that go forth to the warre in Israel, thou and Aaron shall number them, throughout their armies.
\v 4 And with you shalbe men of euery tribe, such as are the heads of the house of their fathers.
\v 5 And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you, of the tribe of Reuben, Elizur, the sonne of Shedeur:
\v 6 Of Simeon, Shelumiel the sonne of Zurishaddai:
\v 7 Of Iudah, Nahshon the sonne of Amminadab:
\v 8 Of Issachar, Nethaneel, the sonne of Zuar:
\v 9 Of Zebulun, Eliab, the sonne of Helon:
\v 10 Of the children of Ioseph: of Ephraim, Elishama the sonne of Ammihud: of Manasseh, Gamliel, the sonne of Pedahzur:
\v 11 Of Beiamin, Abida the sonne of Gideoni:
\v 12 Of Dan, Ahiezer, the sonne of Ammishaddai:
\v 13 Of Asher, Pagiel, the sonne of Ocran:
\v 14 Of Gad, Eliasaph, the sonne of Deuel:
\v 15 Of Naphtali, Ahira the sonne of Enan.
\v 16 These were famous in the Congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers, and heads ouer thousands in Israel.
\v 17 The Moses and Aaron tooke these men which are expressed by their names.
\v 18 And they called all the Congregation together, in the first day of the second moneth, who declared their kindreds by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yere olde and aboue, man by man.
\v 19 As the Lord had commanded Moses, so he nombred them in the wildernesse of Sinai.
\v 20 So were the sonnes of Reuben Israels eldest sonne by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, man by man euery male from twentie yere olde and aboue, as many as went forth to warre:
\v 21 The nomber of them, I say, of the tribe of Reuben, was sixe and fourtie thousande, and fiue hundreth.
\v 22 Of the sonnes of Simeon by their generatios, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, the summe therof by the nomber of their names, man by man, euery male from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went forth to warre:
\v 23 The summe of them, I say, of the tribe of Simeon was nine and fiftie thousande, and three hundreth.
\v 24 Of the sonnes of Gad by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yere olde and aboue, all that went forth to warre:
\v 25 The number of them, I say, of the tribe of Gad was fiue and fourtie thousand, and six hundreth and fiftie.
\v 26 Of the sonnes of Iudah by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yere olde and aboue, all that went forth to warre:
\v 27 The nomber of them, I say, of the tribe of Iudah was three score and fourteene thousande, and sixe hundreth.
\v 28 Of the sonnes of Issachar by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went forth to warre:
\v 29 The nomber of them also of the tribe of Issachar was foure and fiftie thousande and foure hundreth.
\v 30 Of the sonnes of Zebulun by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the number of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
\v 31 The nomber of them also of the tribe of Zebulun was seuen and fiftie thousand and foure hundreth.
\v 32 Of the sonnes of Ioseph, namely of the sonnes of Ephraim by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
\v 33 The nomber of them also of the tribe of Ephraim was fourtie thousande and fiue hundreth.
\v 34 Of the sonnes of Manasseh by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
\v 35 The nober of the also of ye tribe of Manasseh was two and thirtie thousand and two hundreth.
\v 36 Of the sonnes of Beniamin by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
\v 37 The nomber of them also of the tribe of Beniamin was fiue and thirtie thousande and foure hundreth.
\v 38 Of the sonnes of Dan by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
\v 39 The nomber of the also of ye tribe of Dan was three score and two thousand and seue hudreth.
\v 40 Of the sonnes of Asher by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the number of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
\v 41 The nomber of them also of ye tribe of Asher was one and fourtie thousand and fiue hudreth.
\v 42 Of the children of Naphtali, by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went to the warre:
\v 43 The nomber of them also of the tribe of Naphtali, was three and fiftie thousand, and foure hundreth.
\v 44 These are the summes which Moses, and Aaron nombred, and the Princes of Israel, the twelue men, which were euery one for the house of their fathers.
\v 45 So this was all the summe of the sonnes of Israel, by the houses of their fathers, from twenty yeere olde and aboue, all that went to the warre in Israel,
\v 46 And all they were in nomber sixe hudreth and three thousande, fiue hundreth and fiftie.
\v 47 But the Leuites, after the tribes of their fathers were not nombred among them.
\v 48 For the Lord had spoken vnto Moses, and said,
\v 49 Onely thou shalt not number the tribe of Leui, neither take the summe of them among the children of Israel:
\v 50 But thou shalt appoynt the Leuites ouer the Tabernacle of the Testimonie, and ouer all the instruments thereof, and ouer all things that belong to it: they shall beare the Tabernacle, and all the instruments thereof, and shall minister in it, and shall dwell round about the Tabernacle.
\v 51 And when the Tabernacle goeth forth, the Leuites shall take it downe: and when the Tabernacle is to be pitched, ye Leuites shall set it vp: for the stranger that commeth neere, shalbe slaine.
\v 52 Also the children of Israel shall pitch their tentes, euery man in his campe, and euery man vnder his standerd throughout their armies.
\v 53 But the Leuites shall pitch rounde about the Tabernacle of the Testimonie, least vengeance come vpon the Congregation of the children of Israel, and the Leuites shall take the charge of the Tabernacle of the Testimonie.
\v 54 So the children of Israel did according to all that ye Lord had comanded Moses: so did they.