\c 12
\p
\v 1 I Beseech you therefore brethren, by the mercies of God, that yee giue vp your bodies a liuing sacrifice, holy, acceptable vnto God, which is your reasonable seruing of God.
\v 2 And fashion not your selues like vnto this worlde, but bee yee changed by the renewing of your minde, that ye may prooue what that good, and acceptable and perfect will of God is.
\v 3 For I say through the grace that is giuen vnto me, to euery one that is among you, that no man presume to vnderstande aboue that which is meete to vnderstand, but that he vnderstande according to sobrietie, as God hath dealt to euery man the measure of faith.
\v 4 For as wee haue many members in one body, and all members haue not one office,
\v 5 So we being many are one body in Christ, and euery one, one anothers members.
\v 6 Seeing then that we haue gifts that are diuers, according to the grace that is giuen vnto vs, whether we haue prophecie, let vs prophecie according to the portion of faith:
\v 7 Or an office, let vs waite on the office: or he that teacheth, on teaching:
\v 8 Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that distributeth, let him doe it with simplicitie: he that ruleth, with diligence: he that sheweth mercie, with cheerefulnesse.
\v 9 Let loue be without dissimulation. Abhorre that which is euill, and cleaue vnto that which is good.
\v 10 Be affectioned to loue one another with brotherly loue. In giuing honour, goe one before another,
\v 11 Not slouthfull to do seruice: seruent in spirit seruing the Lord,
\v 12 Reioycing in hope, pacient in tribulation, continuing in prayer,
\v 13 Distributing vnto the necessities of the Saintes: giuing your selues to hospitalitie.
\v 14 Blesse them which persecute you: blesse, I say, and curse not.
\v 15 Reioyce with them that reioyce, and weepe with them that weepe.
\v 16 Be of like affection one towardes another: be not hie minded: but make your selues equall to them of the lower sort: be not wise in your selues.
\v 17 Recompence to no man euill for euill: procure things honest in the sight of all men.
\v 18 If it bee possible, as much as in you is, haue peace with all men.
\v 19 Dearely beloued, auenge not your selues, but giue place vnto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine: I will repay, saith the Lord.
\v 20 Therefore, if thine enemie hunger, feede him: if he thirst, giue him drinke: for in so doing, thou shalt heape coales of fire on his head.
\v 21 Bee not ouercome of euill, but ouercome euill with goodnesse.