\c 15
\p
\v 1 I Am that true vine, and my Father is that husband man.
\v 2 Euery branch that beareth not fruite in me, he taketh away: and euery one that beareth fruite, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruite.
\v 3 Nowe are ye cleane through the worde, which I haue spoken vnto you.
\v 4 Abide in me, and I in you: as the branche cannot beare fruite of it selfe, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me.
\v 5 I am that vine: ye are the branches: he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruite: for without me can ye doe nothing.
\v 6 If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branche, and withereth: and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they burne.
\v 7 If ye abide in me, and my wordes abide in you, aske what ye wil, and it shalbe done to you.
\v 8 Herein is my Father glorified, that ye beare much fruite, and be made my disciples.
\v 9 As the father hath loued me, so haue I loued you: continue in that my loue.
\v 10 If ye shall keepe my commandements, ye shall abide in my loue, as I haue kept my Fathers commandements, and abide in his loue.
\v 11 These things haue I spoken vnto you, that my ioy might remaine in you, and that your ioy might be full.
\v 12 This is my commandement, that ye loue one another, as I haue loued you.
\v 13 Greater loue then this hath no man, when any man bestoweth his life for his friendes.
\v 14 Ye are my friendes, if ye doe whatsoeuer I commaund you.
\v 15 Henceforth call I you not seruants: for the seruant knoweth not what his master doeth: but I haue called you friends: for all things that I haue heard of my Father, haue I made knowen to you.
\v 16 Ye haue not chosen me, but I haue chosen you, and ordeined you, that ye goe and bring foorth fruite, and that your fruite remaine, that whatsoeuer ye shall aske of the Father in my Name, he may giue it you.
\v 17 These things commaund I you, that ye loue one another.
\v 18 If the worlde hate you, ye knowe that it hated me before you.
\v 19 If ye were of the worlde, the world woulde loue his owne: but because ye are not of ye world, but I haue chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.
\v 20 Remember the word that I said vnto you, The seruant is not greater then his master. If they haue persecuted me, they will persecute you also: if they haue kept my worde, they will also keepe yours.
\v 21 But all these things will they doe vnto you for my Names sake, because they haue not knowen him that sent me.
\v 22 If I had not come and spoken vnto them, they shoulde not haue had sinne: but nowe haue they no cloke for their sinne.
\v 23 He that hateth me, hateth my Father also.
\v 24 If I had not done workes among them which none other man did, they had not had sinne: but nowe haue they both seene, and haue hated both me, and my Father.
\v 25 But it is that the worde might be fulfilled, that is written in their Lawe, They hated me without a cause.
\v 26 But when that Comforter shall come, whom I will send vnto you from the Father, euen the Spirit of trueth, which proceedeth of the Father, he shall testifie of me.
\v 27 And ye shall witnesse also, because ye haue bene with me from the beginning.