\c 6
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When a man or a woman doeth separate themselues to vowe a vowe of a Nazarite to separate himselfe vnto the Lord,
\v 3 He shall abstaine from wine and strong drinke, and shall drinke no sowre wine nor sowre drinke, nor shall drinke any licour of grapes, neither shall eate fresh grapes nor dryed.
\v 4 As long as his abstinence endureth, shall hee eat nothing that is made of the wine of the vine, neither the kernels, nor the huske.
\v 5 While hee is separate by his vowe, the rasor shall not come vpon his head, vntill the dayes be out, in the which he separateth him selfe vnto the Lord, he shalbe holy, and shall let the lockes of the heare of his head growe.
\v 6 During the time that he separateth himselfe vnto the Lord, he shall come at no dead body:
\v 7 Hee shall not make himselfe vncleane at the death of his father, or mother, brother, or sister: for the consecration of his God is vpon his head.
\v 8 All the dayes of his separation he shalbe holy to the Lord.
\v 9 And if any dye suddenly by him, or hee beware, then the head of his consecration shall be defiled, and he shall shaue his head in the day of his clensing: in the seuenth day he shall shaue it.
\v 10 And in the eight day hee shall bring two turtles, or two yong pigeons to the Priest, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 11 Then the Priest shall prepare the one for a sinne offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and shall make an atonement for him, because he sinned by the dead: so shall he halowe his head the same day,
\v 12 And he shall consecrate vnto the Lord the dayes of his separation, and shall bring a lambe of a yeere olde for a trespasse offering, and the first dayes shalbe voide: for his consecration was defiled.
\v 13 This then is the lawe of the Nazarite: When the time of his consecration is out, he shall come to the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
\v 14 And hee shall bring his offering vnto the Lord, an hee lambe of a yeere olde without blemish for a burnt offering, and a shee lambe of a yere olde without blemish for a sinne offring, and a ramme without blemish for peace offrings,
\v 15 And a basket of vnleauened bread, of cakes of fine floure, mingled with oyle, and wafers of vnleauened bread anointed with oile, with their meate offring, and their drinke offrings:
\v 16 The which the Priest shall bring before the Lord, and make his sinne offering and his burnt offering.
\v 17 He shall prepare also the ram for a peace offring vnto the Lord, with the basket of vnleauened bread, and the Priest shall make his meate offring, and his drinke offring.
\v 18 And the Nazarite shall shaue the head of his consecration at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and shall take the heare of the head of his consecration, and put it in the fire, which is vnder the peace offring.
\v 19 Then the Priest shall take ye sodden shoulder of the ramme, and an vnleauened cake out of the basket, and a wafer vnleauened, and put them vpon the hands of the Nazarite, after he hath shauen his consecration.
\v 20 And the Priest shall shake them to and from before the Lord: this is an holy thing for the Priest besides the shaken breast, and besides the heaue shoulder: so afterwarde the Nazarite may drinke wine.
\v 21 This is the Lawe of the Nazarite, which he hath vowed, and of his offering vnto the Lord for his consecration, besides that that hee is able to bring: according to the vowe which he vowed, so shall he do after the lawe of his consecration.
\v 22 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 23 Speake vnto Aaron and to his sonnes, saying, Thus shall ye blesse the childre of Israel, and say vnto them,
\v 24 The Lord blesse thee, and keepe thee,
\v 25 The Lord make his face shine vpon thee, and be merciful vnto thee,
\v 26 The Lord lift vp his coutenance vpon thee, and giue thee peace.
\v 27 So they shall put my Name vpon the children of Israel, and I wil blesse them.