\c 8
\p
\v 1 Nowe when he was come downe from the mountaine, great multitudes followed him.
\v 2 And loe, there came a Leper and worshipped him, saying, Master, if thou wilt, thou canst make me cleane.
\v 3 And Iesus putting foorth his hand, touched him, saying, I will, be thou cleane: and immediatly his leprosie was clensed.
\v 4 Then Iesus saide vnto him, See thou tell no man, but goe, and shewe thy selfe vnto the Priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a witnesse to them.
\v 5 When Iesus was entred into Capernaum, there came vnto him a Centurion, beseeching him,
\v 6 And saide, Master, my seruant lieth sicke at home of the palsie, and is grieuously pained.
\v 7 And Iesus saide vnto him, I will come and heale him.
\v 8 But the Centurion answered, saying, Master, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come vnder my roofe: but speake the worde onely, and my seruant shall be healed.
\v 9 For I am a man also vnder the authoritie of an other, and haue souldiers vnder me: and I say to one, Goe, and he goeth: and to another, Come, and he commeth: and to my seruant, Doe this, and he doeth it.
\v 10 When Iesus heard that, he marueiled, and said to them that folowed him, Verely, I say vnto you, I haue not found so great faith, euen in Israel.
\v 11 But I say vnto you, that many shall come from the East and West, and shall sit downe with Abraham, and Isaac, and Iacob, in the kingdome of heauen.
\v 12 And the children of the kingdome shall be cast out into vtter darkenes: there shalbe weeping and gnashing of teeth.
\v 13 Then Iesus saide vnto the Centurion, Goe thy way, and as thou hast beleeued, so be it vnto thee, And his seruant was healed the same houre.
\v 14 And when Iesus came to Peters house, he sawe his wiues mother layed downe, and sicke of a feuer.
\v 15 And he touched her hande, and the feuer left her: so she arose, and ministred vnto them.
\v 16 When the Euen was come, they brought vnto him many that were possessed with deuils: and he cast out the spirits with his worde, and healed all that were sicke,
\v 17 That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Esaias the Prophet, saying, He tooke our infirmities, and bare our sickenesses.
\v 18 And when Iesus sawe great multitudes of people about him, he commanded them to goe ouer the water.
\v 19 Then came there a certaine Scribe, and said vnto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoeuer thou goest.
\v 20 But Iesus saide vnto him, The foxes haue holes, and the birdes of the heauen haue nestes, but the Sonne of man hath not whereon to rest his head.
\v 21 And another of his disciples saide vnto him, Master, suffer me first to goe, and burie my father.
\v 22 But Iesus said vnto him, Followe me, and let the dead burie their dead.
\v 23 And when he was entred into ye ship, his disciples followed him.
\v 24 And beholde, there arose a great tempest in the sea, so that the ship was couered with waues: but he was a sleepe.
\v 25 Then his disciples came, and awoke him, saying, Master, saue vs: we perish.
\v 26 And he said vnto them, Why are ye fearefull, O ye of litle faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea: and so there was a great calme.
\v 27 And the men marueiled, saying, What man is this, that both the windes and the sea obey him!
\v 28 And when he was come to the other side into ye countrey of the Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with deuils, which came out of the graues very fierce, so that no man might goe by that way.
\v 29 And beholde, they cryed out, saying, Iesus the sonne of God, what haue we to do with thee? Art thou come hither to tormet vs before ye time?
\v 30 Nowe there was, afarre off from them, a great heard of swine feeding.
\v 31 And the deuils besought him, saying, If thou cast vs out, suffer vs to goe into the heard of swine.
\v 32 And he said vnto them, Go. So they went out and departed into the heard of swine: and beholde, the whole heard of swine ranne headlong into the sea, and died in the water.
\v 33 Then the heardmen fled: and when they were come into the citie, they tolde all things, and what was become of them that were possessed with the deuils.
\v 34 And beholde, all ye citie came out to meete Iesus: and when they sawe him, they besought him to depart out of their coastes.