\c 16
\p
\v 1 These thinges haue I saide vnto you, that ye should not be offended.
\v 2 They shall excommunicate you: yea, the time shall come, that whosoeuer killeth you, will thinke that he doeth God seruice.
\v 3 And these things will they doe vnto you, because they haue not knowen ye Father, nor me.
\v 4 But these things haue I tolde you, that when the houre shall come, ye might remember, that I tolde you them. And these things said I not vnto you from ye beginning, because I was with you.
\v 5 But now I go my way to him that sent me, and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou?
\v 6 But because I haue saide these thinges vnto you, your hearts are full of sorowe.
\v 7 Yet I tell you the trueth, It is expedient for you that I goe away: for if I goe not away, that Comforter will not come vnto you: but if I depart, I will send him vnto you.
\v 8 And when he is come, he will reproue the worlde of sinne, and of righteousnesse, and of iudgement.
\v 9 Of sinne, because they beleeued not in me:
\v 10 Of righteousnesse, because I goe to my Father, and ye shall see me no more:
\v 11 Of iudgement, because the prince of this world is iudged.
\v 12 I haue yet many things to say vnto you, but ye cannot beare them nowe.
\v 13 Howbeit, when he is come which is the Spirit of trueth, he will leade you into all trueth: for he shall not speake of himselfe, but whatsoeuer he shall heare, shall he speake, and he will shew you the things to come.
\v 14 He shall glorifie me: for he shall receiue of mine, and shall shewe it vnto you.
\v 15 All thinges that the Father hath, are mine: therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shewe it vnto you.
\v 16 A litle while, and ye shall not see me: and againe a litle while, and ye shall see me: for I goe to the Father.
\v 17 Then said some of his disciples among them selues, What is this that he saieth vnto vs, A litle while, and ye shall not see me, and againe, a litle while, and ye shall see me, and, For I goe to the Father.
\v 18 They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A litle while? we know not what he sayeth.
\v 19 Now Iesus knew that they would aske him, and said vnto them, Doe ye enquire among your selues, of that I said, A litle while, and ye shall not see me: and againe, a litle while, and yee shall see me?
\v 20 Verely, verely I say vnto you, that ye shall weepe and lament, and the worlde shall reioyce: and ye shall sorowe, but your sorowe shalbe turned to ioye.
\v 21 A woman when she traueileth, hath sorowe, because her houre is come: but assoone as she is deliuered of the childe, she remembreth no more the anguish, for ioy that a man is borne into the world.
\v 22 And ye nowe therefore are in sorowe: but I will see you againe, and your hearts shall reioyce, and your ioy shall no man take from you.
\v 23 And in that day shall ye aske me nothing. Verely, verely I say vnto you, whatsoeuer ye shall aske the Father in my Name, he will giue it you.
\v 24 Hitherto haue ye asked nothing in my Name: aske, and ye shall receiue, that your ioye may be full.
\v 25 These things haue I spoken vnto you in parables: but the time will come, when I shall no more speake to you in parables: but I shall shew you plainely of the Father.
\v 26 At that day shall ye aske in my Name, and I say not vnto you, that I will pray vnto the Father for you:
\v 27 For the Father himselfe loueth you, because ye haue loued me, and haue beleeued that I came out from God.
\v 28 I am come out from the Father, and came into the worlde: againe I leaue the worlde, and goe to the Father.
\v 29 His disciples saide vnto him, Loe, nowe speakest thou plainely, and thou speakest no parable.
\v 30 Nowe knowe wee that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should aske thee. By this we beleeue, that thou art come out from God.
\v 31 Iesus answered them, Doe you beleeue nowe?
\v 32 Beholde, the houre commeth, and is already come, that ye shalbe scattered euery man into his owne, and shall leaue me alone: but I am not alone: for the Father is with me.
\v 33 These thinges haue I spoken vnto you, that in me ye might haue peace: in the world ye shall haue affliction, but be of good comfort: I haue ouercome the world.