\c 16
\p
\v 1 I Commende vnto you Phebe our sister, which is a seruaunt of the Church of Cenchrea:
\v 2 That ye receiue her in the Lord, as it becommeth Saintes, and that ye assist her in whatsoeuer businesse she needeth of your ayde: for she hath giuen hospitalitie vnto many, and to me also.
\v 3 Greete Priscilla, and Aquila my fellowe helpers in Christ Iesus,
\v 4 (Which haue for my life laide downe their owne necke. Vnto whom not I onely giue thankes, but also all the Churches of the Gentiles.)
\v 5 Likewise greete the Church that is in their house. Salute my beloued Epenetus, which is the first fruites of Achaia in Christ.
\v 6 Greete Marie which bestowed much labour on vs.
\v 7 Salute Andronicus and Iunia my cousins and fellowe prisoners, which are notable among the Apostles, and were in Christ before me.
\v 8 Greete Amplias my beloued in the Lord.
\v 9 Salute Vrbanus our fellow helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloued.
\v 10 Salute Apelles approoued in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobulus friendes.
\v 11 Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greete them which are of the friendes of Narcissus which are in the Lord.
\v 12 Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, which women labour in the Lord. Salute the beloued Persis, which woman hath laboured much in the Lord.
\v 13 Salute Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
\v 14 Greete Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Mercurius, and the brethren which are with them.
\v 15 Salute Philologus and Iulias, Nereas, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the Saintes which are with them.
\v 16 Salute one another with an holy kisse. The Churches of Christ salute you.
\v 17 Now I beseech you brethren, marke them diligently which cause diuision and offences, contrary to the doctrine which ye haue learned, and auoide them.
\v 18 For they that are such, serue not the Lord Iesus Christ, but their owne bellies, and with faire speach and flattering deceiue the heartes of the simple.
\v 19 For your obedience is come abroade among all: I am glad therefore of you: but yet I woulde haue you wise vnto that which is good, and simple concerning euill.
\v 20 The God of peace shall treade Satan vnder your feete shortly. The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you.
\v 21 Timotheus my helper, and Lucius, and Iason, and Sosipater my kinsemen, salute you.
\v 22 I Tertius, which wrote out this Epistle, salute you in the Lord.
\v 23 Gains mine hoste, and of the whole Church saluteth you. Erastus the steward of the citie saluteth you, and Quartus a brother.
\v 24 The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
\v 25 To him nowe that is of power to establish you according to my Gospel, and preaching of Iesus Christ, by the reuelation of the mysterie, which was kept secrete since the worlde began:
\v 26 (But nowe is opened, and published among all nations by the Scriptures of the Prophetes, at the commandement of the euerlasting God for the obedience of faith)
\v 27 To God, I say, only wise, be praise through Iesus Christ for euer. Amen. ‘Written to the Romans from Corinthus, and sent by Phebe, seruaunt of the Church which is at Cenchrea.’