\c 4
\p
\v 1 Then was Iesus led aside of the Spirit into the wildernes, to be tempted of the deuil.
\v 2 And when he had fasted fourtie dayes, and fourtie nights, he was afterward hungrie.
\v 3 Then came to him the tempter, and said, If thou be the Sonne of God, commande that these stones be made bread.
\v 4 But he answering said, It is written, Man shall not liue by bread onely, but by euery worde that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.
\v 5 Then the deuil tooke him vp into the holy Citie, and set him on a pinacle of the temple,
\v 6 And said vnto him, If thou be the Sonne of God, cast thy selfe downe: for it is written, that he wil giue his Angels charge ouer thee, and with their hands they shall lift thee vp, lest at any time thou shouldest dash thy foote against a stone.
\v 7 Iesus saide vnto him, It is written againe, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
\v 8 Againe the deuil tooke him vp into an exceeding hie mountaine, and shewed him all the kingdomes of the world, and the glory of them,
\v 9 And sayd to him, All these will I giue thee, if thou wilt fall downe, and worship me.
\v 10 Then sayd Iesus vnto him, Auoyde Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him onely shalt thou serue.
\v 11 Then the deuill left him: and beholde, the Angels came, and ministred vnto him.
\v 12 And when Iesus had heard that Iohn was committed to prison, he returned into Galile.
\v 13 And leauing Nazareth, went and dwelt in Capernaum, which is neere the sea in the borders of Zabulon and Nephthalim,
\v 14 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the Propet, saying,
\v 15 The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim by the way of the sea, beyond Iordan, Galile of the Gentiles:
\v 16 The people which sate in darkenes, sawe great light: and to them which sate in the region, and shadowe of death, light is risen vp.
\v 17 From that time Iesus began to preach, and to say, Amende your liues: for the kingdome of heauen is at hand.
\v 18 And Iesus walking by the sea of Galile, sawe two brethren, Simon, which was called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea (for they were fishers.)
\v 19 And he sayd vnto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
\v 20 And they straightway leauing the nets, folowed him.
\v 21 And when he was gone forth from thence, he saw other two brethren, Iames the sonne of Zebedeus, and Iohn his brother in a ship with Zebedeus their father, mending their nets, and he called them.
\v 22 And they without tarying, leauing the ship, and their father, folowed him.
\v 23 So Iesus went about all Galile, teaching in their Synagogues, and preaching the Gospel of the kingdome, and healing euery sicknesse and euery disease among the people.
\v 24 And his fame spread abroad through all Syria: and they brought vnto him all sicke people, that were taken with diuers diseases and torments, and them that were possessed with deuils, and those which were lunatike, and those that had the palsey: and he healed them.
\v 25 And there folowed him great multitudes out of Galile, and Decapolis, and Hierusalem, and Iudea, and from beyond Iordan.