\c 27
\p
\v 1 The children of Israel also after their nomber, euen the chiefe fathers and captaines of thousandes and of hundreths, and their officers that serued the King by diuers courses, which came and in went out, moneth by moneth throughout al the moneths of the yeere: in euery course were foure and twentie thousand.
\v 2 Ouer the first course for the first moneth was Iashobeam the sonne of Zabdiel: and in his course were foure and twentie thousand.
\v 3 Of the sonnes of Perez was the chiefe ouer all the princes of the armies for the first moneth.
\v 4 And ouer the course of the second moneth was Dodai, an Ahohite, and this was his course, and Mikloth was a captaine, and in his course were foure and twentie thousand.
\v 5 The captaine of the thirde hoste for the third moneth was Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada the chiefe Priest: and in his course were foure and twentie thousand.
\v 6 This Benaiah was mightie among thirtie and aboue the thirtie, and in his course was Amizabad his sonne.
\v 7 The fourth for the fourth moneth was Asahel the brother of Ioab, and Zebadiah his sonne after him: and in his course were foure and twentie thousand.
\v 8 The fift for ye fift moneth was prince Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
\v 9 The sixt for the sixt moneth was Ira the sonne of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
\v 10 The seuenth for the seuenth moneth was Helez the Pelonite, of the sonnes of Ephraim: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
\v 11 The eight for the eight moneth was Sibbecai the Hushathite of the Zarhites: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
\v 12 The ninth for the ninth moneth was Abiezer the Anethothite of the sonnes of Iemini: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
\v 13 The tenth for the tenth moneth was Maharai, the Netophathite of the Zarhites: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
\v 14 The eleueth for the eleuenth moneth was Benaiah the Pirathonite of the sonnes of Ephraim: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
\v 15 The twelft for the twelft moneth was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
\v 16 Moreouer the rulers ouer the tribes of Israel were these: ouer the Reubenites was ruler, Eliezer the sonne of Zichri: ouer the Shimeonites, Shephatiah the sonne of Maachah:
\v 17 Ouer the Leuites, Hashabiah the sonne of Remuel: ouer them of Aharon, and Zadok:
\v 18 Ouer Iudah, Elihu of the brethren of Dauid: ouer Issachar, Omri the sonne of Michael:
\v 19 Ouer Zebulun, Ishmaiah the sonne of Obadiah: ouer Naphtali, Ierimoth the sonne of Azriel:
\v 20 Ouer the sonnes of Ephraim, Hoshea the sonne of Azazziah: ouer the halfe tribe of Manasseh, Ioel the sonne of Pedaiah:
\v 21 Ouer the other halfe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the sonne of Zechariah: ouer Beniamin, Iaasiel the sonne of Abner:
\v 22 Ouer Dan, Azariel the sonne of Ieroham. these are the princes of the tribes of Israel.
\v 23 But Dauid tooke not the nober of them from twentie yeere olde and vnder, because the Lord had sayde that he would increase Israel like vnto the starres of the heauens.
\v 24 And Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah beganne to nomber: but hee finished it not, because there came wrath for it against Israel, neither was the nomber put into the Chronicles of King Dauid.
\v 25 And ouer the Kings treasures was Azmaueth the sonne of Adiel: and ouer the treasures in the fieldes, in the cities and in the villages and in the towers was Iehonathan the sonne of Vzziah:
\v 26 And ouer the workemen in the fielde that tilled the ground, was Ezri the sonne of Chelub:
\v 27 And ouer them that dressed the vines, was Shimei the Ramathite: and ouer that which apperteined to the vines, and ouer the store of the wine was Sabdi the Shiphmite:
\v 28 And ouer the oliue trees and mulberie trees that were in the valleys, was Baal Hanan the Gederite: and ouer the store of the oyle was Ioash:
\v 29 And ouer the oxen that fed in Sharon, was Shetrai the Sharonite: and ouer the oxen in the valleyes was Shaphat the sonne of Adlai:
\v 30 And ouer the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite: and ouer the asses was Iehdeiah the Meronothite:
\v 31 And ouer the sheepe was Iaziz the Hagerite: all these were the rulers of the substance that was King Dauids.
\v 32 And Iehonathan Dauids vncle a man of counsell and vnderstanding (for he was a scribe) and Iehiel the sonne of Hachmoni were with the Kings sonnes.
\v 33 And Ahitophel was the Kings counseller, and Hushai the Archite the Kings friend.
\v 34 And after Ahitophel was Iehoiada the sonne of Benaiah and Abiathar: and captaine of the Kings armie was Ioab.