\c 28
\p
\v 1 Now in the end of the Sabbath, when the first day of ye weeke began to dawne, Marie Magdalene, and the other Marie came to see the sepulchre,
\v 2 And behold, there was a great earthquake: for the Angel of the Lord descended from heauen, and came and rolled backe the stone from the doore, and sate vpon it.
\v 3 And his countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snowe.
\v 4 And for feare of him, the keepers were astonied, and became as dead men.
\v 5 But the Angel answered, and said to the women, Feare ye not: for I know that ye seeke Iesus which was crucified:
\v 6 He is not here, for he is risen; as he saide: come, see the place where the Lord was laid,
\v 7 And go quickly, and tel his disciples that he is risen from ye dead: and behold, he goeth before you into Galile: there ye shall see him: loe, I haue told you.
\v 8 So they departed quickly from the sepulchre, with feare and great ioye, and did runne to bring his disciples worde.
\v 9 And as they wet to tel his disciples, behold, Iesus also met the, saying, God saue you. And they came, and tooke him by the feete, and worshipped him.
\v 10 Then said Iesus vnto them, Be not afraide. Goe, and tell my brethren, that they goe into Galile, and there shall they see me.
\v 11 Nowe when they were gone, beholde, some of the watch came into the citie, and shewed vnto the hie Priestes all ye things that were done.
\v 12 And they gathered them together with the Elders, and tooke counsell, and gaue large money vnto the souldiers,
\v 13 Saying, Say, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.
\v 14 And if this matter come before the gouernour to be heard, we will perswade him, and so vse the matter that you shall not neede to care.
\v 15 So they tooke the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is noysed among the Iewes vnto this day.
\v 16 Then ye eleuen disciples wet into Galile, into a mountaine, where Iesus had appointed the.
\v 17 And when they sawe him, they worshipped him: but some douted.
\v 18 And Iesus came, and spake vnto them, saying, All power is giuen vnto me, in heauen, and in earth.
\v 19 Go therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the Name of the Father, and the Sonne, and the holy Ghost,
\v 20 Teaching them to obserue all things, whatsoeuer I haue commanded you: and lo, I am with you alway, vntill the ende of the worlde, Amen.