\c 8
\p
\v 1 After this now, Dauid smote the Philistims, and subdued them, and Dauid tooke the bridle of bondage out of the hand of the Philistims.
\v 2 And hee smote Moab, and measured them with a corde, and cast them downe to the ground: he measured them with two cordes to put them to death, and with one full corde to keepe them aliue: so became the Moabites Dauids seruants, and brought giftes.
\v 3 Dauid smote also Hadadezer the sonne of Rehob King of Zobah, as he went to recouer his border at the riuer Euphrates.
\v 4 And Dauid tooke of them a thousand and seuen hundreth horsemen, and twenty thousande footemen, and Dauid destroyed all the charets, but he reserued an hundreth charets of them.
\v 5 Then came the Aramites of Dammesek to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, but Dauid slewe of the Aramites two and twenty thousande men.
\v 6 And Dauid put a garison in Aram of Damesek: and the Aramites became seruants to Dauid, and brought gifts. And the Lord saued Dauid wheresoeuer he went.
\v 7 And Dauid tooke the shieldes of gold that beloged to the seruants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Ierusalem.
\v 8 And out of Betah, and Berothai (cities of Hadadezer) king Dauid brought exceeding much brasse.
\v 9 Then Toi king of Hamath heard howe Dauid had smitten all the hoste of Hadadezer,
\v 10 Therefore Toi sent Ioram his sonne vnto King Dauid, to salute him, and to reioyce with him because he had fought against Hadadezer, and beaten him (for Hadadezer had warre with Toi) who brought with him vessels of siluer, and vessels of golde, and vessels of brasse.
\v 11 And King Dauid did dedicate them vnto the Lord with the siluer and golde that he had dedicate of all the nations, which he had subdued:
\v 12 Of Aram, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistims, and of Amalek, and of the spoyle of Hadadezer ye sonne of Rehob King of Zobah.
\v 13 So Dauid gate a name after that hee returned, and had slayne of the Aramites in the valley of salt eighteene thousand men.
\v 14 And he put a garison in Edom: throughout all Edom put he souldiers, and all they of Edom became Dauids seruants: and the Lord kept Dauid whithersoeuer he went.
\v 15 Thus Dauid reigned ouer all Israel, and executed iudgement and iustice vnto all his people.
\v 16 And Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah was ouer the hoste, and Ioshaphat the sonne of Ahilud was recorder.
\v 17 And Zadok the sonne of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the sonne of Abiathar were the Priestes, and Seraiah the Scribe.
\v 18 And Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and Dauids sonnes were chiefe rulers.