\c 39
\p
\v 1 Moreouer they made garments of ministration to minister in the Sanctuarie of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet: they made also the holy garments for Aaron, as the Lord had comanded Moses.
\v 2 So he made the Ephod of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
\v 3 And they did beate the golde into thinne plates, and cut it into wiers, to worke it in ye blewe silke and in the purple, and in the skarlet, and in the fine linen, with broydred worke.
\v 4 For the which they made shoulders to couple together: for it was closed by the two edges thereof.
\v 5 And the broydred garde of his Ephod that was vpon him, was of the same stuffe, and of like worke: euen of golde, of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 6 And they wrought two Onix stones closed in ouches of golde, and graued, as signets are grauen, with the names of the children of Israel,
\v 7 And put them on the shoulders of the Ephod, as stones for a remembrance of the children of Israel, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 8 Also he made the brestplate of broydred worke like the worke of the Ephod: to wit, of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
\v 9 They made the brest plate double, and it was square, an hand breadth long, and an hand breadth broad: it was also double.
\v 10 And they filled it with foure rowes of stones. The order was thus, a Rubie, a Topaze, and a Carbuncle in the first rowe:
\v 11 And in the seconde rowe, an Emeraude, a Saphir, and a Diamond:
\v 12 Also in the thirde rowe, a Turkeis, an Achate, and an Hematite:
\v 13 Likewise in the fourth rowe, a Chrysolite, an Onix, and a Iasper: closed and set in ouches of golde.
\v 14 So the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, euen twelue after their names, grauen like signets euery one after his name according to the twelue tribes.
\v 15 After, they made vpon the brest plate cheines at the endes, of wrethen worke and pure golde.
\v 16 They made also two bosses of golde, and two golde rings, and put the two rings in the two corners of the brest plate.
\v 17 And they put ye two wrethe cheines of gold in the two rings, in the corners of the brest plate.
\v 18 Also the two other endes of the two wrethen chaines they fastened in the two bosses, and put the on the shoulders of the Ephod vpon the forefront of it.
\v 19 Likewise they made two rings of gold, and put them in the two other corners of the brest plate vpon the edge of it, which was on the inside of the Ephod.
\v 20 They made also two other golden rings, and put them on the two sides of the Ephod, beneath on the foreside of it, and ouer against his coupling aboue the broydered garde of the Ephod.
\v 21 Then they fastened the brest plate by his rings vnto the rings of the Ephod, with a lace of blewe silke, that it might bee fast vpon the broydered garde of the Ephod, and that the brest plate should not be loosed from the Ephod, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 22 Moreouer, he made the robe of the Ephod of wouen worke, altogether of blewe silke.
\v 23 And the hole of the robe was in the middes of it, as the coller of an habergeon, with an edge about the coller, that it shoulde not rent.
\v 24 And they made vpon the skirts of the robe pomegranates, of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linen twined.
\v 25 They made also belles of pure gold and put the belles betweene the pomegranates vpon the skirtes of the robe rounde about betweene the pomegranates.
\v 26 A bel and a pomegranate, a bel and a pomegranate round about the skirts of the robe to minister in, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 27 After, they made coates of fine linen, of wouen worke for Aaron and for his sonnes.
\v 28 And the miter of fine linen, and goodly bonnets of fine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen,
\v 29 And the girdle of fine twined linen, and of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, euen of needle worke, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 30 Finally they made the plate for the holy crowne of fine golde, and wrote vpon it a superscription like to the grauing of a signet, HOLINES TO THE LORD.
\v 31 And they tied vnto it a lace of blewe silke to fasten it on hie vpon the miter, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 32 Thus was all the worke of the Tabernacle, euen of the Tabernacle of the Congregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to al that the Lord had commanded Moses: so dyd they.
\v 33 Afterwarde they brought the Tabernacle vnto Moses, the Tabernacle and al his instruments, his taches, his boards, his barres, and his pillars, and his sockets,
\v 34 And the couering of rammes skinnes died red, and the couerings of badgers skinnes, and the couering vaile.
\v 35 The Arke of the Testimony, and the barres thereof, and the Merciseate,
\v 36 The Table, with all the instruments thereof, and the shewebread,
\v 37 The pure Candlesticke, the lampes thereof, euen the lampes set in order, and all the instruments thereof, and the oyle for light:
\v 38 Also the golden Altar and the anoynting oyle, and the sweete incense, and the hanging of the Tabernacle doore,
\v 39 The brasen Altar with his grate of brasse, his barres and all his instruments, the Lauer and his foote.
\v 40 The curtaines of the court with his pillars, and his sockets, and the hanging to the court gate, and his cordes, and his pinnes, and all the instruments of the seruice of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 41 Finally, the ministring garmentes to serue in the Sanctuarie, and the holy garmentes for Aaron the Priest, and his sonnes garmentes to minister in the Priestes office.
\v 42 According to euery poynt that the Lord had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel made all the worke.
\v 43 And Moses beheld al the worke, and behold, they had done it as the Lord had commanded: so had they done: and Moses blessed them.