\c 63
\p
\v 1 Who is this that commeth from Edom, with red garments from Bozrah? hee is glorious in his apparel and walketh in his great strength: I speake in righteousnesse, and am mightie to saue.
\v 2 Wherefore is thine apparel red, and thy garments like him that treadeth in ye wine presse?
\v 3 I haue troden the wine presse alone, and of all people there was none with mee: for I will treade them in mine anger, and tread them vnder foote in my wrath, and their blood shalbe sprinkled vpon my garments, and I will staine all my raiment.
\v 4 For the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the yeere of my redeemed is come.
\v 5 And I looked, and there was none to helpe, and I wondered that there was none to vpholde: therefore mine owne arme helped me, and my wrath it selfe sustained me.
\v 6 Therefore I wil tread downe the people in my wrath, and make them drunken in mine indignation, and wil bring downe their strength to the earth.
\v 7 I wil remember the mercies of the Lord and the prayses of the Lord according vnto all that the Lord hath giuen vs, and for the great goodnesse toward the house of Israel, which hee hath giuen them according to his tender loue, and according to his great mercies.
\v 8 For he saide, Surely they are my people, children that wil not lie: so he was their Sauiour.
\v 9 In all their troubles he was troubled, and the Angel of his presence saued them: in his loue and in his mercie he redeemed them, and he bare them and caried them alwayes continually.
\v 10 But they rebelled and vexed his holy Spirit: therefore was hee turned to be their enemie and he fought against them.
\v 11 Then he remembred the olde time of Moses and his people, saying, Where is hee that brought them vp out of the Sea with the shepheard of his sheepe? where is he that put his holy Spirit within him?
\v 12 He led them by the right hand of Moses with his owne glorious arme, deuiding the water before them, to make himselfe an euerlasting Name.
\v 13 Hee led them through the deepe, as an horse in the wildernesse, that they should not stumble,
\v 14 As the beast goeth downe into the valley, the Spirite of the Lord gaue them rest: so diddest thou leade thy people, to make thy selfe a glorious Name.
\v 15 Looke downe from heauen, and beholde from the dwelling place of thine holines, and of thy glory. Where is thy zeale and thy strength, the multitude of thy mercies, and of thy compassions? they are restrained from me.
\v 16 Doutles thou art our Father: though Abraham be ignorant of vs, and Israel knowe vs not, yet thou, O Lord, art our Father, and our redeemer: thy Name is for euer.
\v 17 O Lord, why hast thou made vs to erre from thy wayes? and hardened our heart from thy feare? Returne for thy seruants sake, and for the tribes of thine inheritance.
\v 18 The people of thine holinesse haue possessed it, but a litle while: for our aduersaries haue troden downe thy Sanctuarie.
\v 19 We haue bene as they, ouer whome thou neuer barest rule, and vpon whom thy Name was not called.