\c 14
\p
\v 1 These also are the places which the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the Priest, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun and the chiefe fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed to them,
\v 2 By the lot of their inheritance, as the Lord had commanded by the hande of Moses, to giue to the nine tribes, and the halfe tribe.
\v 3 For Moses had giuen inheritance vnto two tribes and an halfe tribe, beyond Iorde: but vnto the Leuites he gaue none inheritance among them.
\v 4 For the childre of Ioseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim: therefore they gaue no part vnto the Leuites in the lande, saue cities to dwell in, with the suburbes of the same for their beastes and their substance.
\v 5 As the Lord had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did when they deuided the land.
\v 6 Then the children of Iudah came vnto Ioshua in Gilgal: and Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh the Kenezite saide vnto him, Thou knowest what the Lord saide vnto Moses the man of God, concerning me and thee in Kadesh-barnea.
\v 7 Fourtie yeere olde was I, when Moses the seruant of the Lord sent me from Kadesh-barnea to espie the land, and I brought him word againe, as I thought in mine heart.
\v 8 But my brethren that went vp with me, discouraged the heart of the people: yet I followed still the Lord my God.
\v 9 Wherefore Moses sware the same day, saying, Certainely the land whereon thy feete haue troden, shalbe thine inheritance, and thy childrens for euer, because thou hast followed constantly the Lord my God.
\v 10 Therefore beholde nowe, the Lord hath kept me aliue, as he promised: this is the fourtie and fift yeere since the Lord spake this thing vnto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wildernes: and nowe loe, I am this day foure score and fiue yeere olde:
\v 11 And yet am as strong at this time, as I was when Moses sent me: as strong as I was then, so strong am I nowe, either for warre, or for gouernment.
\v 12 Nowe therefore giue me this mountaine whereof ye Lord spake in that day (for thou heardest in that day, how the Anakims were there, and the cities great and walled) if so be the Lord will be with me, that I may driue them out, as the Lord said.
\v 13 Then Ioshua blessed him, and gaue vnto Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh, Hebron for an inheritance.
\v 14 Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh the Kenezite, vnto this day: because he followed constantly the Lord God of Israel.
\v 15 And the name of Hebron was before time, Kiriath-arba: which Arba was a great man amog the Anakims: thus the land ceassed from warre.