\c 46
\p
\v 1 Then Israel tooke his iourney with all that he had, and came to Beer-sheba, and offered sacrifice vnto the God of his father Izhak.
\v 2 And God spake vnto Israel in a vision by night, saying, Iaakob, Iaakob. Who answered, I am here.
\v 3 Then hee sayde, I am God, the God of thy father, feare not to goe downe into Egypt: for I will there make of thee a great nation.
\v 4 I wil go downe with thee into Egypt, and I will also bring thee vp againe, and Ioseph shall put his hand vpon thine eyes.
\v 5 Then Iaakob rose vp from Beer-sheba: and the sonnes of Israel caried Iaakob their father, and their children, and their wiues in the charets, which Pharaoh had sent to cary him.
\v 6 And they tooke their cattell and their goods, which they had gotten in the lande of Canaan, and came into Egypt, both Iaakob and all his seede with him,
\v 7 His sonnes and his sonnes sonnes with him, his daughters and his sonnes daughters, and al his seede brought he with him into Egypt.
\v 8 And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, euen Iaakob and his sonnes: Reuben, Iaakobs first borne.
\v 9 And the sonnes of Reuben: Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.
\v 10 And the sonnes of Simeon: Iemuel, and Iamin, and Ohad, and Iachin, and Zohar; and Shaul the sonne of a Canaanitish woman.
\v 11 Also the sonnes of Leui: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
\v 12 Also the sonnes of Iudah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zerah: (but Er and Onan died in ye land of Canaan) And the sonnes of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.
\v 13 Also the sonnes of Issachar: Tola, and Phuuah, and Iob, and Shimron.
\v 14 Also the sonnes of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and Iahleel.
\v 15 These bee the sonnes of Leah, which shee bare vnto Iaakob in Padan Aram, with his daughter Dinah. All the soules of his sonnes and his daughters were thirtie and three.
\v 16 Also the sonnes of Gad: Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.
\v 17 Also the sonnes of Asher: Iimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister. And the sonnes of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel.
\v 18 These are the children of Zilpah, whome Laban gaue to Leah his daughter: and these shee bare vnto Iaakob, euen sixtene soules.
\v 19 The sonnes of Rahel Iaakobs wife were Ioseph and Beniamin.
\v 20 And vnto Ioseph in the lande of Egypt were borne Manasseh, and Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Poti-pherah prince of On bare vnto him.
\v 21 Also the sonnes of Beniamin: Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
\v 22 These are the sonnes of Rahel, which were borne vnto Iaakob, fourteene soules in all.
\v 23 Also the sonnes of Dan: Hushim.
\v 24 Also the sonnes of Naphtali: Iahzeel, and Guni, and Iezer, and Shillem.
\v 25 These are the sonnes of Bilhah, which Laban gaue vnto Rahel his daughter, and shee bare these to Iaakob, in all, seuen soules.
\v 26 Al the soules, that came with Iaakob into Egypt, which came out of his loynes (beside Iaakobs sonnes wiues) were in the whole, three score and sixe soules.
\v 27 Also the sonnes of Ioseph, which were borne him in Egypt, were two soules: so that al the soules of the house of Iaakob, which came into Egypt, are seuentie.
\v 28 The he sent Iudah before him vnto Ioseph, to direct his way vnto Goshen, and they came into the land of Goshen.
\v 29 Then Ioseph made ready his charet and went vp to Goshen to meete Israel his father, and presented himselfe vnto him and fel on his necke, and wept vpon his necke a good while.
\v 30 And Israel sayde vnto Ioseph, Now let me die, since I haue seene thy face, and that thou art yet aliue.
\v 31 Then Ioseph said to his brethren, and to his fathers house, I wil go vp and shew Pharaoh, and tell him, My brethren and my fathers house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come vnto me,
\v 32 And the men are shepheardes, and because they are shepheardes, they haue brought their sheepe and their cattell, and all that they haue.
\v 33 And if Pharaoh call you, and aske you, What is your trade?
\v 34 Then ye shall say, Thy seruants are men occupied about cattell, from our childehood euen vnto this time, both we and our fathers: that yee may dwell in the lande of Goshen: for euery sheepe keeper is an abomination vnto the Egyptians.