\c 29
\p
\v 1 Then Iaakob lift vp his feete and came into the East countrey.
\v 2 And as he looked about, behold there was a well in the field, and lo, three flocks of sheepe lay thereby (for at that well were the flockes watered) and there was a great stone vpon the welles mouth.
\v 3 And thither were all the flockes gathered, and they rolled the stone from the welles mouth, and watered the sheepe, and put the stone againe vpon the welles mouth in his place.
\v 4 And Iaakob sayde vnto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they answered, We are of Haran.
\v 5 Then he sayd vnto them, Know ye Laban the sonne of Nahor? Who said, We know him.
\v 6 Againe he sayd vnto them, Is he in good health? And they answered, He is in good health, and beholde, his daughter Rahel commeth with the sheepe.
\v 7 Then he sayd, Lo, it is yet hie day, neither is it time that the cattell shoulde be gathered together: water ye the sheepe and go feede them.
\v 8 But they sayde, We may not vntill all the flocks be brought together, and till men rolle the stone from the welles mouth, that we may water the sheepe.
\v 9 While he talked with them, Rahel also came with her fathers sheepe, for she kept them.
\v 10 And assoone as Iaakob saw Rahel ye daughter of Laban his mothers brother, and the sheepe of Laban his mothers brother, then came Iaakob neere, and rolled the stone from the welles mouth, and watered ye flocke of Laban his mothers brother.
\v 11 And Iaakob kissed Rahel, and lift vp his voyce and wept.
\v 12 (For Iaakob tolde Rahel, that he was her fathers brother, and that he was Rebekahs sonne) then she ranne and tolde her father.
\v 13 And when Laban heard tell of Iaakob his sisters sonne, he ranne to meete him, and embraced him and kissed him, and brought him to his house: and he tolde Laban all these things.
\v 14 To whome Laban sayd, Well, thou art my bone and my flesh. and he abode with him the space of a moneth.
\v 15 For Laban sayde vnto Iaakob, Though thou be my brother, shouldest thou therfore serue me for nought? tell me, what shalbe thy wages?
\v 16 Now Laban had two daughters, the elder called Leah, and the yonger called Rahel.
\v 17 And Leah was tender eyed, but Rahel was beautifull and faire.
\v 18 And Iaakob loued Rahel, and sayde, I will serue thee seuen yeeres for Rahel thy yonger daughter.
\v 19 Then Laban answered, It is better that I giue her thee, then that I should giue her to another man: abide with me.
\v 20 And Iaakob serued seuen yeres for Rahel, and they seemed vnto him but a few dayes, because he loued her.
\v 21 Then Iaakob sayde to Laban, Giue me my wife, that I may goe in to her: for my terme is ended.
\v 22 Wherefore Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.
\v 23 But whe the euening was come, he tooke Leah his daughter and brought her to him, and he went in vnto her.
\v 24 And Laban gaue his mayde Zilpah to his daughter Leah, to be her seruant.
\v 25 But when the morning was come, behold, it was Leah. Then sayde he to Laban, Wherefore hast thou done thus to mee? did not I serue thee for Rahel? wherfore then hast thou beguiled me?
\v 26 And Laban answered, It is not the maner of this place, to giue the yonger before the elder.
\v 27 Fulfill seuen yeeres for her, and we wil also giue thee this for the seruice, which thou shalt serue me yet seuen yeeres more.
\v 28 Then Iaakob did so, and fulfilled her seuen yeeres, so he gaue him Rahel his daughter to be his wife.
\v 29 Laban also gaue to Rahel his daughter Bilhah his mayde to be her seruant.
\v 30 So entred he in to Rahel also, and loued also Rahel more then Leah, and serued him yet seuen yeeres more.
\v 31 When the Lord saw that Leah was despised, he made her fruitful: but Rahel was barren.
\v 32 And Leah conceiued and bare a sonne, and she called his name Reuben: for she said, Because the Lord hath looked vpon my tribulation, now therefore mine husband will loue me.
\v 33 And she conceiued againe and bare a sonne, and sayde, Because the Lord heard that I was hated, he hath therefore giuen me this sonne also, and she called his name Simeon.
\v 34 And she conceiued againe and bare a sonne, and said, Now at this time wil my husband keepe mee company, because I haue borne him three sonnes: therefore was his name called Leui.
\v 35 Moreouer shee conceiued againe and bare a sonne, saying, Nowe will I prayse the Lord: therefore shee called his name Iudah, and left bearing.