\c 28
\p
\v 1 Then Izhak called Iaakob and blessed him, and charged him, and sayde vnto him, Take not a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
\v 2 Arise, get thee to Padan Aram to the house of Bethuel thy mothers father, and thence take thee a wife of the daughters of Laban thy mothers brother.
\v 3 And God all sufficient blesse thee, and make thee to encrease, and multiplie thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people,
\v 4 And giue thee the blessing of Abraham, euen to thee and to thy seede with thee, that thou mayest inherite the lande (wherein thou art a stranger,) which God gaue vnto Abraham.
\v 5 Thus Izhak sent forth Iaakob, and he went to Padan Aram vnto Laban sonne of Bethuel the Aramite, brother to Rebekah, Iaakobs and Esaus mother.
\v 6 When Esau sawe that Izhak had blessed Iaakob, and sent him to Padan Aram, to set him a wife thence, and giuen him a charge when he blessed him, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan,
\v 7 And that Iaakob had obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padan Aram:
\v 8 Also Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan displeased Izhak his father,
\v 9 Then went Esau to Ishmael, and tooke vnto the wiues, which he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abrahams sonne, the sister of Nabaioth, to be his wife.
\v 10 Now Iaakob departed from Beer-sheba, and went to Haran,
\v 11 And he came vnto a certaine place, and taried there al night, because the sunne was downe, and tooke of the stones of the place, and layde vnder his head and slept in the same place.
\v 12 Then he dreamed, and behold, there stoode a ladder vpon the earth, and the top of it reached vp to heauen: and loe, the Angels of God went vp and downe by it.
\v 13 And behold, the Lord stoode aboue it, and sayd, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Izhak: the land, vpon the which thou sleepest, wil I giue thee and thy seede.
\v 14 And thy seede shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the West, and to the East, and to the North, and to the South, and in thee and in thy seede shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
\v 15 And lo, I am with thee, and wil keepe thee whithersoeuer thou goest, and will bring thee againe into this lande: for I will not forsake thee vntill I haue performed that, that I haue promised thee.
\v 16 Then Iaakob awoke out of his sleepe, and sayde, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I was not aware.
\v 17 And he was afraid, and said, How fearefull is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heauen.
\v 18 Then Iaakob rose vp early in the morning, and tooke the stone that hee had layde vnder his head, and set it vp as a pillar, and powred oyle vpon the top of it.
\v 19 And he called ye name of that place Bethel: notwithstanding the name of the citie was at the first called Luz.
\v 20 Then Iaakob vowed a vowe, saying, If God will be with me, and will keepe me in this iourney which I go, and wil giue me bread to eate, and clothes to put on:
\v 21 So that I come againe vnto my fathers house in safetie, then shall the Lord be my God.
\v 22 And this stone, which I haue set vp as a pillar, shall be Gods house: and of all that thou shalt giue me, wil I giue the tenth vnto thee.