\c 2
\p
\v 1 Wherefore wee ought diligently to giue heede to the thinges which wee haue heard, lest at any time we runne out.
\v 2 For if the worde spoken by Angels was stedfast, and euery transgression, and disobedience receiued a iust recompence of reward,
\v 3 How shall we escape, if we neglect so great saluation, which at the first began to be preached by the Lord, and afterward was confirmed vnto vs by them that heard him,
\v 4 God bearing witnes thereto, both with signes and wonders, and with diuers miracles, and gifts of the holy Ghost, according to his owne will?
\v 5 For he hath not put in subiection vnto the Angels the world to come, whereof we speake.
\v 6 But one in a certaine place witnessed, saying, What is man, that thou shouldest bee mindefull of him? or the sonne of man, that thou wouldest consider him?
\v 7 Thou madest him a litle inferiour to ye Angels: thou crownedst him with glory and honour, and hast set him aboue the workes of thine hands.
\v 8 Thou hast put all things in subiection vnder his feete. And in that he hath put all things in subiection vnder him, he left nothing that should not be subiect vnto him. But we yet see not all things subdued vnto him,
\v 9 But we see Iesus crowned with glory and honour, which was made litle inferiour to the Angels, through the suffering of death, that by Gods grace he might taste death for all men.
\v 10 For it became him, for whome are all these thinges, and by whome are all these things, seeing that hee brought many children vnto glory, that he should consecrate the Prince of their saluation through afflictions.
\v 11 For he that sanctifieth, and they which are sanctified, are all of one: wherefore he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
\v 12 Saying, I will declare thy Name vnto my brethren: in the middes of the Church will I sing praises to thee.
\v 13 And againe, I will put my trust in him. And againe, Beholde, here am I, and the children which God hath giuen me.
\v 14 Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himselfe likewise tooke part with them, that hee might destroye through death, him that had the power of death, that is the deuil,
\v 15 And that he might deliuer all them, which for feare of death were all their life time subiect to bondage.
\v 16 For he in no sort tooke on him the Angels nature, but hee tooke on him the seede of Abraham.
\v 17 Wherefore in all things it behoued him to be made like vnto his brethren, that hee might be mercifull, and a faithfull hie Priest in things concerning God, that he might make reconciliation for the sinnes of the people.
\v 18 For in that he suffered, and was tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted.