\c 22
\p
\v 1 Now the feast of vnleauened bread drewe neere, which is called the Passeouer.
\v 2 And the hie Priests and Scribes sought how they might kill him: for they feared the people.
\v 3 Then entred Satan into Iudas, who was called Iscariot, and was of the nomber of the twelue.
\v 4 And he went his way, and communed with the hie Priestes and captaines, how he might betray him to them.
\v 5 So they were glad, and agreed to giue him money.
\v 6 And he consented, and sought opportunitie to betraye him vnto them, when the people were away.
\v 7 Then came the day of vnleauened bread, when the Passeouer must be sacrificed.
\v 8 And he sent Peter and Iohn, saying, Go and prepare vs the Passeouer, that we may eate it.
\v 9 And they saide to him, Where wilt thou, that we prepare it?
\v 10 Then he said vnto them, Beholde, when ye be entred into the citie, there shall a man meete you, bearing a pitcher of water: folowe him into the house that he entreth in,
\v 11 And say vnto the good man of the house, The Master saith vnto thee, Where is the lodging where I shall eate my Passeouer with my disciples?
\v 12 Then he shall shewe you a great hie chamber trimmed: there make it ready.
\v 13 So they went, and found as he had said vnto them, and made readie the Passeouer.
\v 14 And when the houre was come, hee sate downe, and the twelue Apostles with him.
\v 15 Then he saide vnto them, I haue earnestly desired to eate this Passeouer with you, before I suffer.
\v 16 For I say vnto you, Hencefoorth I will not eate of it any more, vntill it bee fulfilled in the kingdome of God.
\v 17 And hee tooke the cup, and gaue thankes, and said, Take this, and deuide it among you,
\v 18 For I say vnto you, I will not drinke of the fruite of the vine, vntill the kingdome of God be come.
\v 19 And he tooke bread, and when he had giuen thankes, he brake it, and gaue to them, saying, This is my body, which is giuen for you: doe this in the remembrance of me.
\v 20 Likewise also after supper he tooke the cup, saying, This cup is that newe Testament in my blood, which is shed for you.
\v 21 Yet beholde, the hand of him that betrayeth me, is with me at the table.
\v 22 And truely the Sonne of man goeth as it is appointed: but woe be to that man, by whom he is betrayed.
\v 23 Then they began to enquire among themselues which of them it should be, that should do that.
\v 24 And there arose also a strife among them, which of them should seeme to be ye greatest.
\v 25 But hee saide vnto them, The Kings of the Gentiles reigne ouer them, and they that beare rule ouer them, are called bountifull.
\v 26 But yee shall not be so: but let the greatest among you be as the least: and the chiefest as he that serueth.
\v 27 For who is greater, he that sitteth at table, or he that serueth? Is not he that sitteth at table? And I am among you as he that serueth.
\v 28 And yee are they which haue continued with me in my tentations.
\v 29 Therefore I appoint vnto you a kingdome, as my Father hath appointed vnto me,
\v 30 That ye may eate, and drinke at my table in my kingdome, and sit on seates, and iudge the twelue tribes of Israel.
\v 31 And the Lord saide, Simon, Simon, beholde, Satan hath desired you, to winowe you as wheate.
\v 32 But I haue prayed for thee, that thy faith faile not: therefore when thou art conuerted, strengthen thy brethren.
\v 33 And he said vnto him, Lord, I am ready to goe with thee into prison, and to death.
\v 34 But he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cocke shall not crowe this day, before thou hast thrise denied that thou knewest me.
\v 35 And he saide vnto them, When I sent you without bagge, and scrip, and shooes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.
\v 36 Then he said to them, But nowe he that hath a bagge, let him take it, and likewise a scrip: and hee that hath none, let him sell his coate, and buy a sworde.
\v 37 For I say vnto you, That yet the same which is written, must be perfourmed in me, Euen with the wicked was he nombred: for doubtlesse those things which are written of me, haue an ende.
\v 38 And they said, Lord, beholde, here are two swordes. And he said vnto them, It is ynough.
\v 39 And he came out, and went (as he was wont) to the mount of Oliues: and his disciples also followed him.
\v 40 And when hee came to the place, hee said to them, Pray, lest ye enter into tentation.
\v 41 And he was drawen aside from them about a stones cast, and kneeled downe, and prayed,
\v 42 Saying, Father, if thou wilt, take away this cuppe from mee: neuerthelesse, not my will, but thine be done.
\v 43 And there appeared an Angell vnto him from heauen, comforting him.
\v 44 But being in an agonie, hee prayed more earnestly: and his sweate was like drops of blood, trickling downe to the ground.
\v 45 And he rose vp from prayer, and came to his disciples, and found them sleeping for heauinesse.
\v 46 And he said vnto them, Why sleepe ye? rise and pray, least ye enter into tentation.
\v 47 And while he yet spake, beholde, a companie, and he that was called Iudas one of the twelue, went before them, and came neere vnto Iesus to kisse him.
\v 48 And Iesus saide vnto him, Iudas, betrayest thou the Sonne of man with a kisse?
\v 49 Now when they which were about him, saw what would follow, they said vnto him, Lord, shall we smite with sworde?
\v 50 And one of them smote a seruant of the hie Priest, and strooke off his right eare.
\v 51 Then Iesus answered, and said, Suffer them thus farre: and he touched his eare, and healed him.
\v 52 Then Iesus said vnto the hie Priests, and captaines of the Temple, and the Elders which were come to him, Bee ye come out as vnto a theefe with swordes and staues?
\v 53 When I was dayly with you in the Temple, yee stretched not foorth the handes against mee: but this is your very houre, and the power of darkenesse.
\v 54 Then tooke they him, and led him, and brought him to the hie Priestes house. And Peter followed afarre off.
\v 55 And when they had kindled a fire in the middes of the hall, and were set downe together, Peter also sate downe among them.
\v 56 And a certaine mayde behelde him as hee sate by the fire, and hauing well looked on him, said, This man was also with him.
\v 57 But he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.
\v 58 And after a little while, another man sawe him, and saide, Thou art also of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not.
\v 59 And about the space of an houre after, a certaine other affirmed, saying. Verely euen this man was with him: for he is also a Galilean.
\v 60 And Peter saide, Man, I knowe not what thou sayest. And immediatly while hee yet spake, the cocke crewe.
\v 61 Then the Lord turned backe, and looked vpon Peter: and Peter remembred the worde of the Lord, how he had said vnto him, Before the cocke crowe, thou shalt denie me thrise.
\v 62 And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.
\v 63 And the men that helde Iesus, mocked him, and strooke him.
\v 64 And when they had blindfolded him, they smote him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophecie who it is that smote thee.
\v 65 And many other thinges blasphemously spake they against him.
\v 66 And assoone as it was day, the Elders of the people, and the hie Priests and the Scribes came together, and led him into their councill,
\v 67 Saying, Art thou that Christ? tell vs. And he said vnto them, If I tell you, ye wil not beleeue it.
\v 68 And if also I aske you, you will not answere me, nor let me goe.
\v 69 Hereafter shall the Sonne of man sit at the right hand of the power of God.
\v 70 Then sayd they all, Art thou then ye Sonne of God? And he sayd to them, Ye say, that I am.
\v 71 Then sayd they, What neede we any further witnes? for we our selues haue heard it of his owne mouth.