\c 10
\p
\v 1 For the Law hauing the shadowe of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can neuer with those sacrifices, which they offer yeere by yeere continually, sanctifie the commers thereunto.
\v 2 For would they not then haue ceased to haue bene offered, because that the offerers once purged, should haue had no more conscience of sinnes?
\v 3 But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance againe of sinnes euery yeere.
\v 4 For it is vnpossible that the blood of bulles and goates should take away sinnes.
\v 5 Wherefore when he commeth into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offring thou wouldest not: but a body hast thou ordeined me.
\v 6 In burnt offerings, and sinne offrings thou hast had no pleasure.
\v 7 Then I sayd, Lo, I come (In the beginning of the booke it is written of me) that I should doe thy will, O God.
\v 8 Aboue, when he sayd, Sacrifice and offring, and burnt offrings, and sinne offrings thou wouldest not haue, neither hadst pleasure therein (which are offered by the Lawe)
\v 9 Then sayd he, Lo, I come to doe thy wil, O God, he taketh away the first, that he may stablish the second.
\v 10 By the which wil we are sanctified, euen by the offring of the body of Iesus Christ once made.
\v 11 And euery Priest standeth dayly ministring, and oft times offreth one maner of offring, which can neuer take away sinnes:
\v 12 But this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sinnes, sitteth for euer at the right hand of God,
\v 13 And from hencefoorth tarieth, till his enemies be made his footestoole.
\v 14 For with one offering hath he consecrated for euer them that are sanctified.
\v 15 For the holy Ghost also beareth vs record: for after that he had sayd before,
\v 16 This is the Testament that I will make vnto them after those dayes, sayth the Lord, I wil put my Lawes in their heart, and in their mindes I will write them.
\v 17 And their sinnes and iniquities will I remember no more.
\v 18 Nowe where remission of these things is, there is no more offering for sinne.
\v 19 Seeing therefore, brethren, that by the blood of Iesus we may be bolde to enter into the Holy place,
\v 20 By the newe and liuing way, which hee hath prepared for vs, through the vaile, that is, his flesh:
\v 21 And seeing we haue an hie Priest, which is ouer the house of God,
\v 22 Let vs drawe neere with a true heart in assurance of faith, our hearts being pure from an euill conscience,
\v 23 And washed in our bodies with pure water, let vs keepe the profession of our hope, without wauering, (for he is faithfull that promised)
\v 24 And let vs consider one another, to prouoke vnto loue, and to good workes,
\v 25 Not forsaking the fellowship that we haue among our selues, as the maner of some is: but let vs exhort one another, and that so much the more, because ye see that the day draweth neere.
\v 26 For if we sinne willingly after that we haue receiued and acknowledged that trueth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sinnes,
\v 27 But a fearefull looking for of iudgement, and violent fire, which shall deuoure the aduersaries.
\v 28 He that despiseth Moses Law, dieth without mercy vnder two, or three witnesses:
\v 29 Of howe much sorer punishment suppose ye shall hee be worthy, which treadeth vnder foote the Sonne of God, and counteth the blood of the Testament as an vnholy thing, wherewith he was sanctified, and doeth despite the Spirit of grace?
\v 30 For we know him that hath sayd, Vengeance belongeth vnto mee: I will recompense, saith the Lord. And againe, The Lord shall iudge his people.
\v 31 It is a fearefull thing to fall into the hands of the liuing God.
\v 32 Nowe call to remembrance the dayes that are passed, in the which, after ye had receiued light, ye endured a great fight in afflictions,
\v 33 Partly while yee were made a gazing stocke both by reproches and afflictions, and partly while ye became companions of them which were so tossed to and from.
\v 34 For both ye sorowed with mee for my bonds, and suffered with ioy the spoyling of your goods, knowing in your selues howe that ye haue in heauen a better, and an enduring substance.
\v 35 Cast not away therefore your confidence which hath great recompense of reward.
\v 36 For ye haue neede of patience, that after ye haue done the will of God, ye might receiue the promise.
\v 37 For yet a very litle while, and hee that shall come, will come, and will not tary.
\v 38 Nowe the iust shall liue by faith: but if any withdrawe himselfe, my soule shall haue no pleasure in him.
\v 39 But we are not they which withdrawe our selues vnto perdition, but follow faith vnto the conseruation of the soule.