\c 16
\p
\v 1 Fvrthermore the Lord spake vnto Moses, after the death of the two sonnes of Aaron, whe they came to offer before the Lord, and dyed:
\v 2 And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Speake vnto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times into the Holy place within the vayle, before the Merciseate, which is vpon the Arke, that he dye not: for I wil appeare in the cloude vpon the Merciseate.
\v 3 After this sort shall Aaron come into the Holy place: euen with a yong bullocke for a sinne offring, and a ramme for a burnt offring.
\v 4 He shall put on the holy linnen coate, and shall haue linnen breeches vpon his flesh, and shall be girded with a linnen girdle, and shall couer his head with a linnen miter: these are the holy garments: therefore shall hee wash his flesh in water, when he doeth put them on.
\v 5 And hee shall take of the Congregation of the children of Israel, two hee goates for a sinne offring, and a ramme for a burnt offring.
\v 6 Then Aaron shall offer the bullocke for his sinne offring, and make an atonement for himselfe, and for his house.
\v 7 And he shall take the two hee goates, and present them before the Lord at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 8 Then Aaron shall cast lots ouer the two hee goates: one lot for the Lord, and the other for the Scape goate.
\v 9 And Aaron shall offer the goat, vpon which the Lords lot shall fal, and make him a sinne offring.
\v 10 But the goate, on which the lot shall fall to be the Scape goate, shalbe presented aliue before the Lord, to make reconciliation by him, and to let him go (as a Scape goate) into the wildernes.
\v 11 Thus Aaron shall offer the bullocke for his sinne offring, and make a reconciliation for himselfe, and for his house, and shall kill the bullocke for his sinne offring.
\v 12 And he shall take a censer full of burning coles from off the altar before the Lord, and his handfull of sweete incense beaten small, and bring it within the vayle,
\v 13 And shall put the incense vpon the fire before the Lord, that the cloude of the incense may couer the Merciseat that is vpon the Testimonie: so he shall not dye.
\v 14 And hee shall take of the blood of the bullocke, and sprinkle it with his finger vpon the Merciseat Eastward: and before the Merciseate shall he sprinkle of the blood with his finger seuen times.
\v 15 Then shall he kill the goate that is the peoples sinne offring, and bring his blood within the vaile, and doe with that blood, as he did with the blood of the bullocke, and sprinckle it vpon the Merciseate, and before the Merciseate.
\v 16 So he shall purge the Holy place from the vncleannes of the children of Israel, and from their trespasses of all their sinnes: so shall he do also for the Tabernacle of the Cogregation placed with them, in the middes of their vncleannesse.
\v 17 And there shalbe no man in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, when he goeth in to make an atonement in the Holy place, vntill hee come out, and haue made an atonement for himselfe, and for his housholde, and for all the Congregation of Israel.
\v 18 After, he shall goe out vnto the altar that is before the Lord and make a reconciliation vpon it, and shall take of the blood of the bullocke, and of the blood of the goate, and put it vpon the hornes of the Altar round about:
\v 19 So shall hee sprinkle of the blood vpon it with his finger seuen times, and clense it, and halowe it from the vncleannes of the children of Israel.
\v 20 When he hath made an ende of purging the Holy place, and the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the altar, then he shall bring the liue goate:
\v 21 And Aaron shall put both his handes vpon the head of the liue goate, and confesse ouer him al the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their trespasses, in all their sinnes, putting them vpon the head of the goate, and shall sende him away (by the hand of a man appointed) into the wildernes.
\v 22 So the goate shall beare vpon him all their iniquities into the land that is not inhabited, and he shall let the goate go into the wildernesse.
\v 23 After, Aaron shall come into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and put off the linnen clothes, which he put on when he went into the Holy place, and leaue them there.
\v 24 Hee shall wash also his flesh with water in the Holy place, and put on his owne rayment, and come out, and make his burnt offring, and the burnt offring of the people, and make an atonement for himselfe, and for the people.
\v 25 Also the fatte of the sinne offring shall he burne vpon the altar.
\v 26 And he that caried forth the goat, called the Scape goat, shall wash his clothes, and wash his flesh in water, and after that shall come into the hoste.
\v 27 Also the bullocke for the sinne offring, and the goate for the sinne offring (whose blood was brought to make a reconciliation in the Holy place) shall one carie out without the hoste to be burnt in the fire, with their skinnes, and with their flesh, and with their doung.
\v 28 And hee that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and wash his flesh in water, and afterward come into the hoste.
\v 29 So this shalbe an ordinance for euer vnto you: the tenth day of the seuenth moneth, yee shall humble your soules, and do no worke at all, whether it be one of the same countrey or a strager that soiourneth among you.
\v 30 For that day shall ye Priest make an atonement for you to clense you: ye shalbe cleane from all your sinnes before the Lord.
\v 31 This shall be a Sabbath of rest vnto you, and ye shall humble your soules, by an ordinance for euer.
\v 32 And the Priest whom he shall anoynt, and whom he shall cosecrate (to minister in his fathers steade) shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linnen clothes and Holy vestments,
\v 33 And shall purge the Holy Sanctuarie and the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and shall clense the altar, and make an atonement for the Priests and for all the people of the Congregation.
\v 34 And this shalbe an euerlasting ordinance vnto you, to make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sinnes once a yeere: and as the Lord commanded Moses, he did.