\c 15
\p
\v 1 Then came downe certaine from Iudea, and taught the brethren, saying, Except ye be circumcised after the maner of Moses, ye cannot be saued.
\v 2 And when there was great dissension, and disputation by Paul and Barnabas against them, they ordeyned that Paul and Barnabas, and certaine other of them, should goe vp to Hierusalem vnto the Apostles and Elders about this question.
\v 3 Thus being brought forth by ye Church, they passed through Phenice and Samaria, declaring the conuersion of the Gentiles, and they brought great ioy vnto all the brethren.
\v 4 And when they were come to Hierusalem, they were receiued of the Church, and of the Apostles and Elders, and they declared what things God had done by them.
\v 5 But said they, certaine of the sect of the Pharises, which did beleeue, rose vp, saying, that it was needefull to circumcise them, and to commaund them to keepe the lawe of Moses.
\v 6 Then the Apostles and Elders came together to looke to this matter.
\v 7 And when there had bene great disputation, Peter rose vp, and said vnto them, Ye men and brethren, ye know that a good while ago, among vs God chose out me, that the Gentiles by my mouth should heare the worde of the Gospel, and beleeue.
\v 8 And God which knoweth the heartes, bare them witnesse, in giuing vnto them ye holy Ghost euen as he did vnto vs.
\v 9 And he put no difference betweene vs and them, after that by faith he had purified their heartes.
\v 10 Nowe therefore, why tempt ye God, to lay a yoke on the disciples neckes, which neither our fathers, nor we were able to beare?
\v 11 But we beleeue, through the grace of the Lord Iesus Christ to be saued, euen as they doe.
\v 12 Then all the multitude kept silence, and heard Barnabas and Paul, which told what signes and wonders God had done among the Gentiles by them.
\v 13 And when they helde their peace, Iames answered, saying, Men and brethren, hearken vnto me.
\v 14 Simeon hath declared, howe God first did visite the Gentiles, to take of them a people vnto his Name.
\v 15 And to this agree the woordes of the Prophets, as it is written,
\v 16 After this I will returne, and will builde againe the tabernacle of Dauid, which is fallen downe, and the ruines thereof will I build againe, and I will set it vp,
\v 17 That the residue of men might seeke after the Lord, and all the Gentiles vpon whom my Name is called, saith the Lord which doeth all these things.
\v 18 From the beginning of the worlde, God knoweth all his workes.
\v 19 Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them of the Gentiles that are turned to God,
\v 20 But that we send vnto them, that they abstaine themselues from filthinesse of idoles, and fornication, and that that is strangled, and from blood.
\v 21 For Moses of olde time hath in euery citie them that preache him, seeing he is read in the Synagogues euery Sabbath day.
\v 22 Then it seemed good to the Apostles and Elders with the whole Church, to sende chosen men of their owne companie to Antiochia with Paul and Barnabas: to wit, Iudas whose surname was Barsabas and Silas, which were chiefe men among the brethren,
\v 23 And wrote letters by them after this maner, THE APOSTLES, and the Elders, and the brethren, vnto the brethren which are of the Gentiles in Antiochia, and in Syria, and in Cilicia, send greeting.
\v 24 Forasmuch as we haue heard, that certaine which went out from vs, haue troubled you with wordes, and cumbred your mindes, saying, Ye must be circumcised and keepe the Lawe: to whom we gaue no such commandement,
\v 25 It seemed therefore good to vs, when we were come together with one accord, to send chosen men vnto you, with our beloued Barnabas and Paul,
\v 26 Men that haue giuen vp their liues for the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 27 We haue therefore sent Iudas and Silas, which shall also tell you ye same things by mouth.
\v 28 For it seemed good to the holy Ghost, and to vs, to lay no more burden vpon you, then these necessary things,
\v 29 That is, that ye abstaine from things offered to idoles, and blood, and that that is strangled, and from fornication: from which if ye keepe your selues, ye shall doe well. Fare ye well.
\v 30 Nowe when they were departed, they came to Antiochia, and after that they had assembled the multitude, they deliuered the Epistle.
\v 31 And when they had read it, they reioyced for the consolation.
\v 32 And Iudas and Silas being Prophets, exhorted the brethren with many wordes, and strengthened them.
\v 33 And after they had taried there a space, they were let goe in peace of the brethren vnto the Apostles.
\v 34 Notwithstanding Silas thought good to abide there still.
\v 35 Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antiochia, teaching and preaching with many other, the worde of the Lord.
\v 36 But after certaine dayes, Paul said vnto Barnabas, Let vs returne, and visite our brethren in euery citie, where we haue preached the worde of the Lord, and see how they doe.
\v 37 And Barnabas counselled to take with them Iohn, called Marke.
\v 38 But Paul thought it not meete to take him vnto their companie, which departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the worke.
\v 39 Then were they so stirred, that they departed asunder one from the other, so that Barnabas tooke Marke, and sailed vnto Cyprus.
\v 40 And Paul chose Silas and departed, being commended of the brethren vnto the grace of God.
\v 41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, stablishing the Churches.