\c 22
\p
\v 1 And they continued three yeere without warre betweene Aram and Israel.
\v 2 And in the third yeere did Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah come downe to ye King of Israel.
\v 3 (Then the King of Israel saide vnto his seruants, Knowe yee not that Ramoth Gilead was ours? and wee stay, and take it not out of ye hand of the King of Aram?)
\v 4 And he sayde vnto Iehoshaphat, Wilt thou goe with mee to battel against Ramoth Gilead? And Iehoshaphat saide vnto the King of Israel, I am as thou art, my people as thy people, and mine horses as thine horses.
\v 5 Then Iehoshaphat saide vnto the King of Israel, Aske counsaile, I pray thee, of the Lord to day.
\v 6 Then the King of Israel gathered the prophets vpon a foure hundreth men, and said vnto them, Shal I go against Ramoth Gilead to battel, or shall I let it alone? And they said, Go vp: for ye Lord shall deliuer it into the hands of the King.
\v 7 And Iehoshaphat said, Is there here neuer a Prophet of the Lord more, that we might inquire of him?
\v 8 And the King of Israel said vnto Iehoshaphat, There is yet one man (Michaiah the sonne of Imlah) by whom we may aske counsel of the Lord, but I hate him: for he doeth not prophecie good vnto me, but euill. And Iehoshaphat sayd, Let not the King say so.
\v 9 Then the King of Israel called an Eunuche, and sayde, Call quickely Michaiah the sonne of Imlah.
\v 10 And the King of Israel and Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah sate either of them on his throne in their apparell in the voyde place at the entring in of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets prophecied before them.
\v 11 And Zidkiiah the sonne of Chenaanah made him hornes of yron, and sayd, Thus sayth the Lord, With these shalt thou push the Aramites, vntill thou hast consumed them.
\v 12 And all the prophets prophecied so, saying, Goe vp to Ramoth Gilead, and prosper: for the Lord shall deliuer it into the Kings hand.
\v 13 And the messenger that was gone to call Michaiah spake vnto him, saying, Beholde now, the wordes of the prophets declare good vnto the King with one accorde: let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like the worde of one of them, and speake thou good.
\v 14 And Michaiah saide, As the Lord liueth, whatsoeuer the Lord sayth vnto me, that will I speake.
\v 15 So he came to the King, and the King said vnto him, Michaiah, shall we go against Ramoth Gilead to battel, or shall we leaue off? And he answered him, Goe vp, and prosper: and the Lord shall deliuer it into the hand of the King.
\v 16 And the King said vnto him, How oft shall I charge thee, that thou tell me nothing but that which is true in the Name of the Lord?
\v 17 Then he said, I sawe all Israel scattered vpon the mountaines, as sheepe that had no shepheard. And the Lord sayde, These haue no master, let euery man returne vnto his house in peace.
\v 18 (And the King of Israel saide vnto Iehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee, that he would prophecie no good vnto me, but euill?)
\v 19 Againe he said, Heare thou therefore the worde of the Lord. I sawe the Lord sit on his throne, and all the hoste of heauen stood about him on his right hand and on his left hand.
\v 20 And the Lord sayd, Who shall entise Ahab that he may go and fall at Ramoth Gilead? And one said on this maner, and another sayd on that maner.
\v 21 Then there came forth a spirit, and stoode before the Lord, and sayd, I wil entise him. And the Lord sayd vnto him, Wherewith?
\v 22 And he sayd, I will goe out, and be a false spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. Then he sayd, Thou shalt entise him, and shalt also preuayle: goe forth, and doe so.
\v 23 Now therefore behold, the Lord hath put a lying spirite in the mouth of all these thy prophets, and the Lord hath appoynted euill against thee.
\v 24 Then Zidkiiah the sonne of Chenaanah came neere, and smote Michaiah on the cheeke and sayd, When went the Spirite of the Lord from me, to speake vnto thee?
\v 25 And Michaiah saide, Behold, thou shalt see in that day, when thou shalt goe from chamber to chamber to hide thee.
\v 26 And the King of Israel sayd, Take Michaiah, and cary him vnto Amon the gouernour of the citie, and vnto Ioash the Kings sonne,
\v 27 And say, Thus saith the King, Put this man in the prison house, and feede him with bread of affliction, and with water of affliction, vntill I returne in peace.
\v 28 And Michaiah sayde, If thou returne in peace, the Lord hath not spoken by me. And he sayd, Hearken all ye people.
\v 29 So the King of Israel and Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah went vp to Ramoth Gilead.
\v 30 And the King of Israel sayde to Iehoshaphat, I will change mine apparell, and will enter into the battell, but put thou on thine apparell. And the King of Israel changed himselfe, and went into the battel.
\v 31 And the King of Aram commanded his two and thirtie captaines ouer his charets, saying, Fight neither with small, nor great, saue onely against the King of Israel.
\v 32 And when the captaines of the charets saw Iehoshaphat, they sayd, Surely it is the King of Israel, and they turned to fight against him: and Iehoshaphat cryed.
\v 33 And when the captaines of the charets saw that he was not the King of Israel, they turned backe from him.
\v 34 Then a certaine man drewe a bow mightily and smote the King of Israel betweene the ioyntes of his brigandine. Wherefore he sayde vnto his charet man, Turne thine hand and cary me out of the hoste: for I am hurt.
\v 35 And the battel encreased that day, and the King stoode still in his charet against the Aramites, and dyed at euen: and the blood ran out of the wound into the middes of the charet.
\v 36 And there went a proclamation thorowout the hoste about the going downe of the sunne, saying, Euery man to his citie, and euery man to his owne countrey.
\v 37 So the King died, and was brought to Samaria, and they buried the King in Samaria.
\v 38 And one washed the charet in the poole of Samaria, and the dogs licked vp his blood (and they washed his armour) according vnto the word of the Lord which he spake.
\v 39 Concerning the rest of the actes of Ahab and all that he did, and the yuorie house which he built, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
\v 40 So Ahab slept with his fathers, and Ahaziah his sonne reigned in his stead.
\v 41 And Iehoshaphat the sonne of Asa began to reigne vpon Iudah in the fourth yeere of Ahab King of Israel.
\v 42 Iehoshaphat was fiue and thirty yere olde, when he began to reigne, and reigned fiue and twentie yeere in Ierusalem. And his mothers name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
\v 43 And he walked in all the wayes of Asa his father, and declined not therefrom, but did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord. Neuerthelesse the hie places were not taken away: for the people offred still and burnt incense in the hie places.
\v 44 And Iehoshaphat made peace with the King of Israel.
\v 45 Concerning the rest of the actes of Iehoshaphat, and his worthy deedes that he did, and his battels which he fought, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
\v 46 And the Sodomites, which remayned in the dayes of his father Asa, he put cleane out of the land.
\v 47 There was then no King in Edom: the deputie was King.
\v 48 Iehoshaphat made shippes of Tharshish to sayle to Ophir for golde, but they went not, for the shippes were broken at Ezion Gaber.
\v 49 Then sayde Ahaziah the sonne of Ahab vnto Iehoshaphat, Let my seruants goe with thy seruants in the ships, But Iehoshaphat would not.
\v 50 And Iehoshaphat did sleepe with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the citie of Dauid his father, and Iehoram his sonne reigned in his stead.
\v 51 Ahaziah the sonne of Ahab began to reigne ouer Israel in Samaria, the seuenteenth yeere of Iehoshaphat King of Iudah, and reigned two yeeres ouer Israel.
\v 52 But he did euill in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne.
\v 53 For he serued Baal and worshipped him, and prouoked the Lord God of Israel vnto wrath, according vnto all that his father had done.