\c 18
\p
\v 1 And the whole Congregation of the children of Israel, came together at Shiloh: for they set vp the Tabernacle of the Congregation there, after the land was subiect vnto them.
\v 2 Nowe there remained among the children of Israel seuen tribes, to whom they had not deuided their inheritance.
\v 3 Therefore Ioshua said vnto the children of Israel, Howe long are ye so slacke to enter and possesse the land which the Lord God of your fathers hath giuen you?
\v 4 Giue from among you for euery tribe three men, that I may sende them, and that they may rise, and walke through the land, and distribute it according to their inheritance, and returne to me.
\v 5 And that they may deuide it vnto them into seuen parts, (Iudah shall abide in his coast at the South, and the house of Ioseph shall stand in their coastes at the North)
\v 6 Ye shall describe the land therefore into seuen partes, and shall bring them hither to me, and I will cast lottes for you here before the Lord our God.
\v 7 But the Leuites shall haue no part among you: for the Priesthood of the Lord is their inheritance: also Gad and Reuben and halfe the tribe of Manasseh haue receiued their inheritance beyond Iorden Eastward, which Moses the seruant of the Lord gaue them.
\v 8 Then the men arose, and went their way: and Ioshua charged them that went to describe the land, saying, Depart, and goe through the land, and describe it, and returne to me, that I may here cast lottes for you before the Lord in Shiloh.
\v 9 So the men departed, and passed through the lande, and described it by cities into seuen partes in a booke, and returned to Ioshua into the campe at Shiloh.
\v 10 Then Ioshua cast lottes for them in Shiloh before the Lord, and there Ioshua deuided the land vnto the children of Israel, according to their portions:
\v 11 And the lot of the tribe of the children of Beniamin came foorth according to their families, and the cost of their lot lay betweene the children of Iudah, and the children of Ioseph.
\v 12 And their coast on the Northside was from Iorden, and the border went vp to the side of Iericho on the Northpart, and went vp through the mountaines Westward, and the endes thereof are in the wildernesse of Beth-auen:
\v 13 And this border goeth along from thence to Luz, euen to the Southside of Luz (the same is Beth-el) and this border descendeth to Atroth-addar, neere the mount, that lyeth on the Southside of Beth-horon the nether.
\v 14 So the border turneth, and compasseth the corner of the Sea Southward, from the mount that lyeth before Beth-horon Southward: and the endes thereof are at Kiriath-baal (which is Kiriath-iearim) a citie of the children of Iudah: this is the Westquarter.
\v 15 And the Southquarter is from the ende of Kiriath-iearim, and this border goeth out Westward, and commeth to the fountaine of waters of Nephtoah.
\v 16 And this border descendeth at the ende of the mountaine, that lyeth before the valley of Ben-hinnom, which is in the valley of the gyants Northward, and descendeth into the valley of Hinnom by the side of Iebusi Southwarde, and goeth downe to En-rogel,
\v 17 And compasseth from the North, and goeth foorth to En-shemesh, and stretcheth to Geliloth, which is toward the going vp vnto Adummim, and goeth downe to the stone of Bohan the sonne of Reuben.
\v 18 So it goeth along to the side ouer against the plaine Northward, and goeth downe into the plaine.
\v 19 After, this border goeth along to the side of Beth-hoglah Northward: and the endes thereof, that is, of the border, reach to the point of the salt Sea Northward, and to the ende of Iorden Southward: this is the Southcoast.
\v 20 Also Iorden is the border of it on the Eastside: this is the inheritance of the children of Beniamin by the coastes thereof rounde about according to their families.
\v 21 Nowe the cities of the tribe of the children of Beniamin according to their families, are Iericho, and Beth-hoglah, and the valley of Keziz,
\v 22 And Beth-arabah, and Zemaraim, and Beth-el,
\v 23 And Auim, and Parah, and Ophrah,
\v 24 And Chephar, Ammonai, and Ophni, and Gaba: twelue cities with their villages.
\v 25 Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,
\v 26 And Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,
\v 27 And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah,
\v 28 And Zela, Eleph, and Iebusi, (which is Ierusalem) Gibeath, and Kiriath: fourteene cities with their villages: this is the inheritance of the children of Beniamin according to their families.