\c 21
\p
\v 1 Nowe the Lord visited Sarah, as he had saide, and did vnto her according as he had promised.
\v 2 For Sarah conceiued, and bare Abraham a sonne in his olde age, at the same season that God tolde him.
\v 3 And Abraham called his sonnes name that was borne vnto him, which Sarah bare him, Izhak.
\v 4 Then Abraham circumcised Izhak his sonne, when he was eight dayes olde, as God had commanded him.
\v 5 So Abraham was an hundreth yeere olde, when his sonne Izhak was borne vnto him.
\v 6 Then Sarah said, God hath made me to reioyce: all that heare will reioyce with me.
\v 7 Againe she said, Who would haue saide to Abraham, that Sarah shoulde haue giuen children sucke? for I haue borne him a sonne in his olde age.
\v 8 Then the childe grewe and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Izhak was weaned.
\v 9 And Sarah sawe the sonne of Hagar the Egyptian (which she had borne vnto Abraham) mocking.
\v 10 Wherefore she saide vnto Abraham, Cast out this bond woman and her sonne: for ye sonne of this bonde woman shall not be heire with my sonne Izhak.
\v 11 And this thing was very grieuous in Abrahams sight, because of his sonne.
\v 12 But God said vnto Abraham, Let it not be grieuous in thy sight for the childe, and for thy bonde woman: in all that Sarah shall say vnto thee, heare her voyce: for in Izhak shall thy seede be called.
\v 13 As for the sonne of the bond woman, I will make him a nation also, because he is thy seede.
\v 14 So Abraham arose vp early in ye morning, and tooke bread, and a bottell of water, and gaue it vnto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, and the childe also, and sent her away: who departing wandred in the wildernesse of Beer-sheba.
\v 15 And when the water of the bottell was spent, she cast the childe vnder a certaine tree.
\v 16 Then she went and sate her ouer against him a farre off about a bowe shoote: for she said, I will not see the death of the child. and she sate downe ouer against him, and lift vp her voyce and wept.
\v 17 Then God heard the voyce of ye childe, and the Angel of God called to Hagar from heauen, and said vnto her, What aileth thee, Hagar? feare not, for God hath heard the voyce of the childe where he is.
\v 18 Arise, take vp the childe, and holde him in thine hand: for I will make of him a great people.
\v 19 And God opened her eyes, and she sawe a well of water. so she went and filled the bottell with water, and gaue the boy drinke.
\v 20 So God was with the childe, and he grewe and dwelt in the wildernesse, and was an archer.
\v 21 And he dwelt in the wildernesse of Paran, and his mother tooke him a wife out of the land of Egypt.
\v 22 And at that same time Abimelech and Phichol his chief captaine spake vnto Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest.
\v 23 Nowe therefore sweare vnto me here by God, that thou wilt not hurt me, nor my children, nor my childrens children: thou shalt deale with me, and with the countrey, where thou hast bene a stranger, according vnto the kindnesse that I haue shewed thee.
\v 24 Then Abraham said, I will sweare.
\v 25 And Abraham rebuked Abimelech for a well of water, which Abimelechs seruants had violently taken away.
\v 26 And Abimelech saide, I knowe not who hath done this thing: also thou toldest me not, neither heard I of it but this day.
\v 27 Then Abraham tooke sheepe and beeues, and gaue them vnto Abimelech: and they two made a couenant.
\v 28 And Abraham set seuen lambes of the flocke by themselues.
\v 29 Then Abimelech said vnto Abraham, What meane these seuen lambes, which thou hast set by themselues?
\v 30 And he answered, Because thou shalt receiue of mine hand these seuen lambes, that it may be a witnes vnto me, that I haue digged this well.
\v 31 Wherefore the place is called Beer-sheba, because there they both sware.
\v 32 Thus made they a couenant at Beer-sheba: afterward Abimelech and Phichol his chiefe captaine rose vp, and turned againe vnto the land of the Philistims.
\v 33 And Abraham planted a groue in Beer-sheba, and called there on the Name of ye Lord, the euerlasting God.
\v 34 And Abraham was a stranger in the Philistims land a long season.