\c 11
\p
\v 1 Then was giuen me a reede, like vnto a rod, and the Angel stoode by, saying, Rise and mete the Temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein.
\v 2 But the court which is without the temple cast out, and mete it not: for it is giuen vnto the Gentiles, and the holy citie shall they treade vnder foote, two and fourtie moneths.
\v 3 But I wil giue power vnto my two witnesses, and they shall prophecie a thousande two hundreth and threescore dayes, clothed in sackcloth.
\v 4 These are two oliue trees, and two candlestickes, standing before the God of the earth.
\v 5 And if any man wil hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouthes, and deuoureth their enemies: for if any man would hurt the, thus must he be killed.
\v 6 These haue power to shut heauen, that it raine not in the dayes of their prophecying, and haue power ouer waters to turne them into blood, and to smite the earth with all maner plagues, as often as they will.
\v 7 And when they haue finished their testimonie, the beast that commeth out of the bottomlesse pit, shall make warre against them, and shall ouercome them, and kill them.
\v 8 And their corpses shall lie in the streetes of the great citie, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where our Lord also was crucified.
\v 9 And they of the people and kinreds, and tongues, and Gentiles shall see their corpses three dayes and an halfe, and shall not suffer their carkeises to be put in graues.
\v 10 And they that dwell vpon the earth, shall reioyce ouer them and be glad, and shall sende giftes one to an other: for these two Prophets vexed them that dwelt on the earth.
\v 11 But after three dayes and an halfe, the spirit of life comming from God, shall enter into them, and they shall stande vp vpon their feete: and great feare shall come vpon them which sawe them.
\v 12 And they shall heare a great voyce from heauen, saying vnto them, Come vp hither. And they shall ascend vp to heauen in a cloude, and their enemies shall see them.
\v 13 And the same houre shall there bee a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the citie shall fall, and in the earthquake shalbe slaine in nomber seuen thousande: and the remnant were sore feared, and gaue glorie to the God of heauen.
\v 14 The second woe is past, and beholde, the third woe will come anon.
\v 15 And the seuenth Angell blewe the trumpet, and there were great voyces in heauen, saying, The kingdomes of this worlde are our Lordes, and his Christes, and he shall reigne for euermore.
\v 16 Then the foure and twentie Elders, which sate before God on their seates, fell vpon their faces, and worshipped God,
\v 17 Saying, We giue thee thankes, Lord God almightie, Which art, and Which wast, and Which art to come: for thou hast receiued thy great might, and hast obteined thy kingdome.
\v 18 And the Gentiles were angrie, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they shoulde be iudged, and that thou shouldest giue reward vnto thy seruants the Prophets, and to the Saintes, and to them that feare thy Name, to small and great, and shouldest destroy them, which destroy the earth.
\v 19 Then the Temple of God was opened in heauen, and there was seene in his Temple the Arke of his couenant: and there were lightnings, and voyces, and thundrings, and earthquake, and much haile.