\c 3
\p
\v 1 My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receiue the greater condemnation.
\v 2 For in many things we sinne all. If any man sinne not in word, he is a perfect man, and able to bridle all the body.
\v 3 Beholde, we put bittes into the horses mouthes, that they should obey vs, and we turne about all their bodie.
\v 4 Behold also the shippes, which though they be so great, and are driuen of fierce windes, yet are they turned about with a very small rudder, whither soeuer the gouernour listeth.
\v 5 Euen so the tongue is a litle member, and boasteth of great things: beholde, howe great a thing a litle fire kindleth.
\v 6 And the tongue is fire, yea, a worlde of wickednesse: so is the tongue set among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire of hell.
\v 7 For the whole nature of beasts, and of birds, and of creeping things, and things of the sea is tamed, and hath bene tamed of the nature of man.
\v 8 But the tongue can no man tame. It is an vnruly euill, full of deadly poyson.
\v 9 Therewith blesse we God euen the Father, and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.
\v 10 Out of one mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing: my brethren, these things ought not so to be.
\v 11 Doeth a fountaine send forth at one place sweete water and bitter?
\v 12 Can ye figge tree, my brethren, bring forth oliues, either a vine figges? so can no fountaine make both salt water and sweete.
\v 13 Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him shew by good conuersation his workes in meekenesse of wisdome.
\v 14 But if ye haue bitter enuying and strife in your hearts, reioyce not, neither be liars against the trueth.
\v 15 This wisedome descendeth not from aboue, but is earthly, sensuall, and deuilish.
\v 16 For where enuying and strife is, there is sedition, and all maner of euill workes.
\v 17 But the wisedome that is from aboue, is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easie to be intreated, full of mercie and good fruites, without iudging, and without hipocrisie.
\v 18 And the fruite of righteousnesse is sowen in peace, of them that make peace.