\c 6
\p
\v 1 Take heede that ye giue not your almes before men, to be seene of them, or els ye shall haue no reward of your Father which is in heaue.
\v 2 Therefore when thou giuest thine almes, thou shalt not make a trumpet to be blowen before thee, as the hypocrites doe in the Synagogues and in the streetes, to be praysed of men. Verely I say vnto you, they haue their rewarde.
\v 3 But when thou doest thine almes, let not thy left hand knowe what thy right hand doeth,
\v 4 That thine almes may be in secret, and thy Father that seeth in secret, hee will rewarde thee openly.
\v 5 And when thou prayest, be not as the hypocrites: for they loue to stand, and pray in the Synagogues, and in the corners of the streetes, because they would be seene of men. Verely I say vnto you, they haue their rewarde.
\v 6 But when thou prayest, enter into thy chamber and when thou hast shut thy doore, pray vnto thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father which seeth in secret, shall rewarde thee openly.
\v 7 Also when ye pray, vse no vaine repetitions as the Heathen: for they thinke to be heard for their much babbling.
\v 8 Be ye not like them therefore: for your Father knoweth whereof ye haue neede, before ye aske of him.
\v 9 After this maner therefore pray ye, Our father which art in heauen, halowed be thy name.
\v 10 Thy Kingdome come. Thy will be done euen in earth, as it is in heauen.
\v 11 Giue vs this day our dayly bread.
\v 12 And forgiue vs our dettes, as we also forgiue our detters.
\v 13 And leade vs not into tentation, but deliuer vs from euill: for thine is the kingdome, and the power, and the glorie for euer. Amen.
\v 14 For if ye doe forgiue men their trespasses, your heauenly Father will also forgiue you.
\v 15 But if ye do not forgiue men their trespasses,, no more will your father forgiue you your trespaces.
\v 16 Moreouer, when ye fast, looke not sowre as the hypocrites: for they disfigure their faces, that they might seeme vnto men to fast. Verely I say vnto you, that they haue their rewarde.
\v 17 But when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face,
\v 18 That thou seeme not vnto men to fast, but vnto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret, will rewarde thee openly.
\v 19 Lay not vp treasures for your selues vpon the earth, where the mothe and canker corrupt, and where theeues digge through and steale.
\v 20 But lay vp treasures for your selues in heauen, where neither the mothe nor canker corrupteth, and where theeues neither digge through, nor steale.
\v 21 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
\v 22 The light of the body is the eye: if then thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be light.
\v 23 But if thine eye be wicked, then all thy body shalbe darke. Wherefore if the light that is in thee, be darkenes, howe great is that darkenesse?
\v 24 No man can serue two masters: for eyther he shall hate the one, and loue the other, or els he shall leane to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serue God and riches.
\v 25 Therefore I say vnto you, be not carefull for your life, what ye shall eate, or what ye shall drinke: nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more worth then meate? and the bodie then raiment?
\v 26 Behold the foules of the heauen: for they sowe not, neither reape, nor carie into the barnes: yet your heauenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better then they?
\v 27 Which of you by taking care is able to adde one cubite vnto his stature?
\v 28 And why care ye for raiment? Learne howe the lilies of the fielde doe growe: they are not wearied, neither spinne:
\v 29 Yet I say vnto you, that euen Salomon in all his glorie was not arayed like one of these.
\v 30 Wherefore if God so clothe the grasse of the fielde which is to day, and to morowe is cast into the ouen, shall he not doe much more vnto you, O ye of litle faith?
\v 31 Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eate? or what shall we drinke? or where with shall we be clothed?
\v 32 (For after all these things seeke the Gentiles) for your heauenly Father knoweth, that ye haue neede of all these things.
\v 33 But seeke ye first the kingdome of God, and his righteousnesse, and all these things shall be ministred vnto you.
\v 34 Care not then for the morowe: for the morowe shall care for it selfe: the day hath ynough with his owne griefe.