\c 20
\p
\v 1 For the kingdome of heauen is like vnto a certaine, housholder, which went out at the dawning of the day to hire labourers into his vineyarde.
\v 2 And he agreed with the labourers for a peny a day, and sent them into his vineyard.
\v 3 And he went out about the third houre, and sawe other standing idle in the market place,
\v 4 And sayd vnto them, Goe ye also into my vineyard, and whatsoeuer is right, I will giue you: and they went their way.
\v 5 Againe he went out about the sixt and ninth houre, and did likewise.
\v 6 And he went about the eleuenth houre, and found other standing idle, and sayd vnto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle?
\v 7 They sayd vnto him, Because no man hath hired vs. He sayd to them, Goe ye also into my vineyard, and whatsoeuer is right, that shall ye receiue.
\v 8 And when euen was come, the master of the vineyard sayd vnto his steward, Call the labourers, and giue them their hire, beginning at the last, till thou come to the first.
\v 9 And they which were hired about ye eleuenth houre, came and receiued euery man a penie.
\v 10 Nowe when the first came, they supposed that they should receiue more, but they likewise receiued euery man a penie.
\v 11 And when they had receiued it, they murmured against the master of the house,
\v 12 Saying, These last haue wrought but one houre, and thou hast made them equall vnto vs, which haue borne the burden and heate of the day.
\v 13 And hee answered one of them, saying, Friend, I doe thee no wrong: didst thou not agree with me for a penie?
\v 14 Take that which is thine owne, and go thy way: I will giue vnto this last, as much as to thee.
\v 15 Is it not lawfull for me to do as I will with mine owne? Is thine eye euil, because I am good?
\v 16 So the last shalbe first, and the first last: for many are called, but fewe chosen.
\v 17 And Iesus went vp to Hierusalem, and tooke the twelue disciples apart in the way, and said vnto them,
\v 18 Beholde, wee goe vp to Hierusalem, and the Sonne of man shall bee deliuered vnto the chiefe priestes, and vnto the Scribes, and they shall condemne him to death,
\v 19 And shall deliuer him to the Gentiles, to mocke, and to scourge, and to crucifie him, but the third day he shall rise againe.
\v 20 Then came to him the mother of Zebedeus children with her sonnes, worshipping him, and desiring a certaine thing of him.
\v 21 And he said vnto her, What wouldest thou? She said to him, Graunt that these my two sonnes may sit, the one at thy right hand, and the other at thy left hand in thy kingdome.
\v 22 And Iesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye aske. Are ye able to drinke of the cup that I shall drinke of, and to be baptized with the baptisme that I shalbe baptized with? They said to him, We are able.
\v 23 And he said vnto them, Ye shall drinke in deede of my cup, and shall be baptized with the baptisme, that I am baptized with, but to sit at my right hande, and at my left hand, is not mine to giue: but it shalbe giuen to them for whome it is prepared of my Father.
\v 24 And when the other ten heard this, they disdained at the two brethren.
\v 25 Therefore Iesus called them vnto him, and saide, We knowe that the lordes of the Gentiles haue domination ouer them, and they that are great, exercise authoritie ouer them.
\v 26 But it shall not be so among you: but whosoeuer will be great among you, let him be your seruant.
\v 27 And whosoeuer will be chiefe among you, let him be your seruant.
\v 28 Euen as the Sonne of man came not to be serued, but to serue, and to giue his life for the ransome of many.
\v 29 And as they departed from Iericho, a great multitude followed him.
\v 30 And beholde, two blinde men, sitting by the way side, when they heard that Iesus passed by, cryed, saying, O Lord, the Sonne of Dauid, haue mercie on vs.
\v 31 And the multitude rebuked them, because they should holde their peace: but they cried the more, saying, O Lord, the Sonne of Dauid, haue mercie on vs.
\v 32 Then Iesus stoode still, and called them, and said, What will ye that I should do to you?
\v 33 They saide to him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.
\v 34 And Iesus mooued with compassion, touched their eyes, and immediatly their eyes receiued sight, and they followed him.