\c 5
\p
\v 1 Then came all the tribes of Israel to Dauid vnto Hebron, and said thus, Beholde, we are thy bones and thy flesh.
\v 2 And in time past when Saul was our King, thou leddest Israel in and out: and the Lord hath sayde to thee, Thou shalt feede my people Israel, and thou shalt be a captaine ouer Israel.
\v 3 So all the Elders of Israel came to the King to Hebron: and King Dauid made a couenant with them in Hebron before the Lord: and they anoynted Dauid King ouer Israel.
\v 4 Dauid was thirtie yeere olde when he began to reigne: and hee reigned fortie yeere.
\v 5 In Hebron hee reigned ouer Iudah seuen yeere, and sixe moneths: and in Ierusalem hee reigned thirtie and three yeeres ouer all Israel and Iudah.
\v 6 The King also and his men went to Ierusalem vnto the Iebusites, the inhabitants of the land: who spake vnto Dauid, saying, Except thou take away the blinde and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither: thinking that Dauid coulde not come thither.
\v 7 But Dauid tooke the fort of Zion: this is the citie of Dauid.
\v 8 Nowe Dauid had sayd the same day, Whosoeuer smiteth the Iebusites, and getteth vp to the gutters and smiteth the lame and blinde, which Dauids soule hateth, I will preferre him: therefore they saide, The blinde and the lame shall not come into that house.
\v 9 So Dauid dwelt in that forte, and called it the citie of Dauid, and Dauid built rounde about it, from Millo, and inward.
\v 10 And Dauid prospered and grewe: for the Lord God of hostes was with him.
\v 11 Hiram also king of Tyrus sent messengers to Dauid, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and masons for walles: and they built Dauid an house.
\v 12 Then Dauid knewe that the Lord had stablished him King ouer Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdome for his people Israels sake.
\v 13 And Dauid tooke him more concubines and wiues out of Ierusalem, after hee was come from Hebron, and more sonnes and daughters were borne to Dauid.
\v 14 And these bee the names of the sonnes that were borne vnto him in Ierusale: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Salomon,
\v 15 And Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Iaphia,
\v 16 And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphalet.
\v 17 But when the Philistims hearde that they had anoynted Dauid King ouer Israel, all the Philistims came vp to seeke Dauid: and when Dauid heard, he went downe to a fort.
\v 18 But the Philistims came, and spred themselues in the valley of Rephaim.
\v 19 Then Dauid asked counsel of the Lord, saying, Shall I goe vp to the Philistims? wilt thou deliuer them into mine handes? And the Lord answered Dauid, Goe vp: for I will doubtlesse deliuer the Philistims into thine handes.
\v 20 Then Dauid came to Baal-perazim, and smote them there, and sayde, The Lord hath deuided mine enemies asunder before mee, as waters be deuided asunder: therefore he called the name of that place, Baal-perazim.
\v 21 And there they left their images, and Dauid and his men burnt them.
\v 22 Againe the Philistims came vp, and spred themselues in the valley of Rephaim.
\v 23 And when Dauid asked counsell of the Lord, hee answered, Thou shalt not goe vp, but turne about behinde them, and come vpon them ouer against the mulberie trees.
\v 24 And when thou hearest the noyse of one going in the toppes of the mulberie trees, then remoue: for then shall the Lord goe out before thee, to smite the hoste of the Philistims.
\v 25 Then Dauid did so as the Lord had commanded him, and smote the Philistims from Geba, vntil thou come to Gazer.