\c 52
\p
\v 1 Aries, arise: put on thy strength, O Zion: put on thy garments of thy beautie, O Ierusalem, the holy citie: for hencefoorth there shall no more come into thee the vncircumcised and the vncleane.
\v 2 Shake thy selfe from the dust: arise, and sit downe, O Ierusalem: loose the bandes of thy necke, O thou captiue daughter, Zion.
\v 3 For thus sayeth the Lord, Yee were solde for naught: therefore shall ye be redeemed without money.
\v 4 For thus saith the Lord God, My people went downe afore time into Egypt to soiourne there, and Asshur oppressed them without cause.
\v 5 Nowe therefore what haue I here, saith the Lord, that my people is taken away for naught, and they that rule ouer them, make them to howle, saith the Lord? and my Name all the day continually is blasphemed?
\v 6 Therefore my people shall know my Name: therefore they shall know in that day, that I am he that doe speake: beholde, it is I.
\v 7 How beautifull vpon the mountaines are the feete of him, that declareth and publisheth peace? that declareth good tidings, and publisheth saluation, saying vnto Zion, Thy God reigneth?
\v 8 The voyce of thy watchmen shalbe heard: they shall lift vp their voyce, and shoute together: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring againe Zion.
\v 9 O ye desolate places of Ierusalem, bee glad and reioyce together: for the Lord hath comforted his people: he hath redeemed Ierusalem.
\v 10 The Lord hath made bare his holy arme in the sight of all the Gentiles, and all the endes of the earth shall see the saluation of our God.
\v 11 Depart, depart ye: goe out from thence and touche no vncleane thing: goe out of the middes of her: be ye cleane, that beare the vessels of the Lord.
\v 12 For ye shall not goe out with haste, nor depart by fleeing away: but the Lord will goe before you, and the God of Israel will gather you together.
\v 13 Beholde, my seruant shall prosper: he shall be exalted and extolled, and be very hie.
\v 14 As many were astonied at thee (his visage was so deformed of men, and his forme of the sonnes of men) so shall hee sprinkle many nations: the Kings shall shut their mouthes at him: for that which had not bene tolde them, shall they see, and that which they had not heard, shall they vnderstande.