\c 7
\p
\v 1 Judge not, that ye be not iudged.
\v 2 Eor with what iudgement ye iudge, ye shall be iudged, and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you againe.
\v 3 And why seest thou the mote, that is in thy brothers eye, and perceiuest not the beame that is in thine owne eye?
\v 4 Or howe sayest thou to thy brother, Suffer me to cast out the mote out of thine eye, and beholde, a beame is in thine owne eye?
\v 5 Hypocrite, first cast out that beame out of thine owne eye, and then shalt thou see clearely to cast out the mote out of thy brothers eye.
\v 6 Giue ye not that which is holy, to dogges, neither cast ye your pearles before swine, lest they treade them vnder their feete, and turning againe, all to rent you.
\v 7 Aske, and it shall be giuen you: seeke, and ye shall finde: knocke, and it shall be opened vnto you.
\v 8 For whosoeuer asketh, receiueth: and he, that seeketh, findeth: and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.
\v 9 For what man is there among you, which if his sonne aske him bread, woulde giue him a stone?
\v 10 Or if he aske fish, wil he giue him a serpent?
\v 11 If ye then, which are euill, can giue to your children good giftes, howe much more shall your Father which is in heauen, giue good thinges to them that aske him?
\v 12 Therefore whatsoeuer ye woulde that men should doe to you, euen so doe ye to them: for this is the Lawe and the Prophets.
\v 13 Enter in at the streight gate: for it is the wide gate, and broade way that leadeth to destruction: and many there be which goe in thereat,
\v 14 Because the gate is streight, and the way narowe that leadeth vnto life, and fewe there be that finde it.
\v 15 Beware of false prophets, which come to you, in sheepes clothing, but inwardly they are rauening wolues.
\v 16 Ye shall know them by their fruites. Doe men gather grapes of thornes? or figges of thistles?
\v 17 So euery good tree bringeth foorth good fruite, and a corrupt tree bringeth forth euill fruite.
\v 18 A good tree can not bring forth euil fruite: neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruite.
\v 19 Euery tree that bringeth not forth good fruite, is hewen downe, and cast into the fire.
\v 20 Therefore by their fruites ye shall knowe them.
\v 21 Not euery one that sayeth vnto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdome of heauen, but he that doeth my Fathers will which is in heauen.
\v 22 Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, haue we not by thy Name prophecied? and by thy name cast out deuils? and by thy name done many great workes?
\v 23 And then will I professe to them, I neuer knewe you: depart from me, ye that worke iniquitie.
\v 24 Whosoeuer then heareth of mee these words, and doeth the same, I will liken him to a wise man, which hath builded his house on a rock:
\v 25 And the raine fell, and the floods came, and the windes blewe, and beat vpon that house, and it fell not: for it was grounded on a rocke.
\v 26 But whosoeuer heareth these my wordes, and doeth them not, shall be likened vnto a foolish man, which hath builded his house vpon the sand:
\v 27 And the raine fell, and the floods came, and the windes blewe, and beat vpon that house, and it fell, and the fall thereof was great.
\v 28 And it came to passe, when Iesus had ended these wordes, the people were astonied at his doctrine.
\v 29 For he taught them as one hauing authoritie, and not as the Scribes.