\c 19
\p
\v 1 And after these things I heard a great voyce of a great multitude in heauen, saying, Hallelu-iah, saluation, and glorie, and honour, and power be to the Lord our God.
\v 2 For true and righteous are his iudgements: for he hath condemned that great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath auenged the blood of his seruants shed by her hand.
\v 3 And againe they saide, Hallelu-iah: and that her smoke rose vp for euermore.
\v 4 And the foure and twentie Elders, and the foure beastes fell downe, and worshipped God that sate on the throne, saying, Amen, Hallelu-iah.
\v 5 Then a voyce came out of the throne, saying, Prayse our God, all ye his seruants, and ye that feare him, both small and great.
\v 6 And I heard like a voyce of a great multitude, and as the voyce of many waters, and as the voyce of strong thundrings, saying, Hallelu-iah: for the Lord that God that almightie God hath reigned.
\v 7 Let vs be glad and reioyce, and giue glory to him: for the marriage of that Lambe is come, and his wife hath made her selfe ready.
\v 8 And to her was granted, that she should be arayed with pure fine linnen and shining, for the fine linnen is the righteousnesse of Saintes.
\v 9 Then he said vnto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called vnto the Lambes supper. And he said vnto me, These wordes of God are true.
\v 10 And I fell before his feete, to worship him: but he said vnto me, See thou doe it not: I am thy fellowe seruant, and one of thy brethren, which haue the testimonie of Iesus. Worship God: for the testimonie of Iesus is the Spirit of prophecie.
\v 11 And I sawe heauen open, and behold, a white horse, and he that sate vpon him, was called, Faithfull and true, and he iudgeth and fighteth righteously.
\v 12 And his eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crownes: and he had a name written, that no man knewe but himselfe.
\v 13 And he was clothed with a garment dipt in blood, and his name is called THE WORD OF GOD.
\v 14 And the hostes which werein heauen, followed him vpon white horses, clothed with fine linnen white and pure.
\v 15 And out of his mouth went out a sharpe sworde, that with it he should smite the heathen: for he shall rule them with a rod of yron: for he it is that treadeth the wine presse of the fiercenesse and wrath of almightie God.
\v 16 And he hath vpon his garment, and vpon his thigh a name written, THE KINGS OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.
\v 17 And I sawe an Angel stand in the sunne, who cryed with a loude voyce, saying to all the foules that did flie by the middes of heauen, Come, and gather your selues together vnto the supper of ye great God,
\v 18 That ye may eate the flesh of Kings, and the flesh of hie Captaines, and the flesh of mightie men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all freemen, and bondmen, and of small and great.
\v 19 And I sawe the beast, and the Kings of the earth, and their hostes gathered together to make battell against him that sate on the horse, and against his armie.
\v 20 But ye beast was taken, and with him that false prophet that wrought miracles before him, whereby he deceiued them that receiued ye beastes marke, and them that worshipped his image. These both were aliue cast into a lake of fire, burning with brimstone.
\v 21 And the remnant were slayne with the sword of him that sitteth vpon the horse, which commeth out of his mouth, and all the foules were filled full with their flesh.