\c 9
\p
\v 1 And he saide vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, that there be some of them that stande here, which shall not taste of death till they haue seene the kingdome of God come with power.
\v 2 And sixe dayes after, Iesus taketh vnto him Peter, and Iames, and Iohn, and carieth them vp into an hie mountaine out of the way alone, and his shape was changed before them.
\v 3 And his rayment did shine, and was very white, as snowe, so white as no fuller can make vpon the earth.
\v 4 And there appeared vnto them Elias with Moses, and they were talking with Iesus.
\v 5 Then Peter answered, and said to Iesus, Master, it is good for vs to be here: let vs make also three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
\v 6 Yet hee knewe not what he saide: for they were afraide.
\v 7 And there was a cloude that shadowed them, and a voyce came out of the cloude, saying, This is my beloued Sonne: heare him.
\v 8 And suddenly they looked roud about, and sawe no more any man saue Iesus only with them.
\v 9 And as they came downe from the mountaine, he charged them, that they should tell no man what they had seene, saue when the Sonne of man were risen from the dead againe.
\v 10 So they kept that matter to themselues, and demaunded one of another, what the rising from the dead againe should meane?
\v 11 Also they asked him, saying, Why say the Scribes, that Elias must first come?
\v 12 And he answered, and said vnto them, Elias verely shall first come, and restore all things: and as it is written of the Sonne of man, hee must suffer many things, and be set at nought.
\v 13 But I say vnto you, that Elias is come, (and they haue done vnto him whatsoeuer they would) as it is written of him.
\v 14 And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the Scribes disputing with them.
\v 15 And straightway all the people, when they behelde him, were amased, and ranne to him, and saluted him.
\v 16 Then hee asked the Scribes, What dispute you among your selues?
\v 17 And one of the companie answered, and said, Master, I haue brought my sonne vnto thee, which hath a dumme spirit:
\v 18 And wheresoeuer he taketh him, he teareth him, and he fometh, and gnasheth his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples, that they should cast him out, and they could not.
\v 19 Then he answered him, and said, O faithlesse generation, how long now shall I be with you! how long now shall I suffer you! Bring him vnto me.
\v 20 So they brought him vnto him: and assoone as the spirit sawe him, hee tare him, and hee fell downe on the ground walowing and foming.
\v 21 Then he asked his father, How long time is it since he hath bin thus? And he said, Of a childe.
\v 22 And oft times he casteth him into the fire, and into the water to destroy him: but if thou canst do any thing, helpe vs, and haue compassion vpon vs.
\v 23 And Iesus said vnto him, If thou canst beleeue it, al things are possible to him that beleeueth.
\v 24 And straightway the father of the childe crying with teares, saide, Lord, I beleeue: helpe my vnbeliefe.
\v 25 When Iesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the vncleane spirit, saying vnto him, Thou domme and deafe spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him.
\v 26 Then the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out, and he was as one dead, in so much that many said, He is dead.
\v 27 But Iesus tooke his hande, and lift him vp, and he arose.
\v 28 And when hee was come into the house, his disciples asked him secretly, Why could not we cast him out?
\v 29 And he saide vnto them, This kinde can by no other meanes come foorth, but by prayer and fasting.
\v 30 And they departed thence, and went together through Galile, and hee would not that any should haue knowen it.
\v 31 For he taught his disciples, and saide vnto them, The Sonne of man shalbe deliuered into the handes of men, and they shall kill him, but after that he is killed, he shall rise againe the third day.
\v 32 But they vnderstoode not that saying, and were afraide to aske him.
\v 33 After, he came to Capernaum: and when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among you by the way?
\v 34 And they helde their peace: for by the way they reasoned among themselues, who should bee the chiefest.
\v 35 And he sate downe, and called the twelue, and said to them, If any man desire to be first, the same shalbe last of all, and seruant vnto all.
\v 36 And he tooke a litle childe, and set him in the middes of them, and tooke him in his armes, and sayd vnto them,
\v 37 Whosoeuer shall receiue one of such litle children in my Name, receiueth me: and whosoeuer receiueth mee, receiueth not me, but him that sent me.
\v 38 Then Iohn answered him, saying, Master, we sawe one casting out deuils by thy Name, which followeth not vs, and we forbade him, because he followeth vs not.
\v 39 But Iesus sayd, Forbid him not: for there is no man that can doe a miracle by my Name, that can lightly speake euill of me.
\v 40 For whosoeuer is not against vs, is on our part.
\v 41 And whosoeuer shall giue you a cup of water to drinke for my Names sake, because ye belong to Christ, verely I say vnto you, he shall not lose his rewarde.
\v 42 And whosoeuer shall offend one of these litle ones, that beleeue in me, it were better for him rather, that a milstone were hanged about his necke, and that he were cast into the sea.
\v 43 Wherefore, if thine hand cause thee to offend, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life, maimed, then hauing two hands, to goe into hell, into the fire that neuer shalbe quenched,
\v 44 Where their worme dyeth not, and the fire neuer goeth out.
\v 45 Likewise, if thy foote cause thee to offend, cut it off: it is better for thee to go halt into life, then hauing two feete, to be cast into hell, into the fire that neuer shalbe quenched,
\v 46 Where their worme dyeth not, and the fire neuer goeth out.
\v 47 And if thine eye cause thee to offende, plucke it out: it is better for thee to goe into the kingdome of God with one eye, then hauing two eyes, to be cast into hell fire,
\v 48 Where their worme dyeth not, and the fire neuer goeth out.
\v 49 For euery man shalbe salted with fire: and euery sacrifice shalbe salted with salt.
\v 50 Salt is good: but if the salt be vnsauerie, wherewith shall it be seasoned? haue salt in your selues, and haue peace one with another.