\c 45
\p
\v 1 Moreover when yee shall deuide the land for inheritance, ye shall offer an oblation vnto the Lord an holy portion of the land, fiue and twentie thousand reedes long, and ten thousand broad: this shalbe holy in all the borders thereof round about.
\v 2 Of this there shalbe for the Sanctuarie fiue hundreth in length with fiue hundreth in breadth, all square round about, and fiftie cubites rounde about for the suburbes thereof.
\v 3 And of this measure shalt thou measure the length of fiue and twentie thousande, and the breadth of tenne thousande: and in it shalbe the Sanctuarie, and the most holy place.
\v 4 The holy portion of the lande shalbe the Priests, which minister in the Sanctuarie, which came neere to serue the Lord: and it shalbe a place for their houses, and an holy place for the Sanctuarie.
\v 5 And in the fiue and twentie thousande of length, and the ten thousand of breadth shall the Leuites that minister in the house, haue their possession for twentie chambers.
\v 6 Also ye shall appoynt the possession of the citie, fiue thousand broad, and fiue and twentie thousand log ouer against the oblation of ye holy portion: it shalbe for the whole house of Israel.
\v 7 And a portion shalbe for the prince on ye one side, and on that side of the oblation of the holy portion, and of the possession of the citie, euen before the oblation of the holy portion, and before the possession of the citie from the West corner Westward, and from the East corner Eastward, and the length shalbe by one of the portions from the West border vnto the East border.
\v 8 In this lande shalbe his possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more oppresse my people, and the rest of the land shall they giue to ye house of Israel, according to their tribes.
\v 9 Thus saith the Lord God, Let it suffice you, O princes of Israel: leaue off crueltie and oppression, and execute iudgment and iustice: take away your exactions from my people, sayth the Lord God.
\v 10 Ye shall haue iust balances, and a true Ephah, and a true Bath.
\v 11 The Ephah and the Bath shalbe equall: a Bath shall conteyne the tenth part of an Homer, and an Ephah the tenth part of an Homer: the equalitie thereof shalbe after the Homer.
\v 12 And the shekel shalbe twentie gerahs, and twentie shekels, and fiue and twentie shekels and fifteene shekels shalbe your Maneh.
\v 13 This is the oblation that ye shall offer, ye sixt part of an Ephah of an Homer of wheat, and ye shall giue the sixt part of an Ephah of an Homer of barley.
\v 14 Concerning ye ordinance of the oyle, euen of the Bath of oyle, ye shall offer the tenth part of a Bath out of ye Cor (ten Baths are an Homer: for ten Baths fill an Homer)
\v 15 And one lambe of two hundreth sheepe out of ye fat pastures of Israel for a meat offring, and for a burnt offring and for peace offrings, to make reconciliation for them, sayth the Lord God.
\v 16 All the people of the lande shall giue this oblation for the prince in Israel.
\v 17 And it shalbe ye princes part to giue burnt offrings, and meat offrings, and drinke offrings in the solemne feasts and in the newe moones, and in the Sabbaths, and in all the hie feasts of the house of Israel: he shall prepare the sinne offring, and the meat offring, and the burnt offring, and the peace offrings to make reconciliation for the house of Israel.
\v 18 Thus sayth the Lord God, In the first moneth, in the first day of the moneth, thou shalt take a yong bullocke without blemish and clense the Sanctuarie.
\v 19 And the Priest shall take of the blood of the sinne offring, and put it vpon the posts of the house, and vpon the foure corners of the frame of the altar, and vpon the postes of the gate of the inner court.
\v 20 And so shalt thou doe the seuenth day of the moneth, for euery one that hath erred and for him that is deceiued: so shall you reconcile the house.
\v 21 In the first moneth in the foureteenth day of the moneth, ye shall haue the Passeouer, a feast of seuen dayes, and ye shall eate vnleauened bread.
\v 22 And vpon that day, shall the prince prepare for him selfe, and for all the people of the lande, a bullocke for a sinne offring.
\v 23 And in the seuen dayes of the feast he shall make a burnt offring to the Lord, euen of seuen bullockes, and seuen rammes without blemish dayly for seuen dayes, and an hee goate dayly for a sinne offring.
\v 24 And he shall prepare a meate offring of an Ephah for a bullocke, an Ephah for a ramme, and an Hin of oyle for an Ephah.
\v 25 In the seuenth moneth, in the fifteenth day of the moneth, shall he do the like in the feast for seuen dayes, according to the sinne offring, according to the burnt offring, and according to the meate offring, and according to the oyle.