\c 48
\p
\v 1 Now these are the names of the tribes. From the North side, to the coast towarde Hethlon, as one goeth to Hamath, Hazar, Enan, and the border of Damascus Northwarde the coast of Hamath, euen from the East side to the West shall be a portion for Dan.
\v 2 And by the border of Dan from the East side vnto the West side, a portion for Asher.
\v 3 And by the border of Asher from the East parte euen vnto the West parte a portion for Naphtali.
\v 4 And by the border of Naphtali from the East quarter vnto the West side, a portion for Manasseh.
\v 5 And by the border of Manasseh from the East side vnto the West side a portion for Ephraim.
\v 6 And by the border of Ephraim, from the East part euen vnto the West part, a portion for Reuben.
\v 7 And by the border of Reuben, from the East quarter vnto the West quarter, a portion for Iudah.
\v 8 And by the border of Iudah from the East part vnto the West part shall be the offering which they shall offer of fiue and twentie thousande reedes broade, and of length as one of the other parts, from the East side vnto the Westside, and the Sanctuarie shalbe in the middes of it.
\v 9 The oblation that ye shall offer vnto the Lord, shalbe of fiue and twentie thousande long, and of ten thousand the breadth.
\v 10 And for them, euen for the Priestes shalbe this holy oblation, towarde the North fiue and twentie thousande long, and towarde the West, ten thousande broade, and towarde the East ten thousand broad, and towarde the South fiue and twentie thousand long, and the Sanctuarie of the Lord shalbe in the middes thereof.
\v 11 It shalbe for the Priestes that are sanctified of the sonnes of Zadok, which haue kept my charge, which went not astray when the children of Israel went astray, as the Leuites went astray.
\v 12 Therefore this oblation of the land that is offred, shalbe theirs, as a thing most holy by the border of the Leuites.
\v 13 And ouer against the border of the Priests the Leuites shall haue fiue and twentie thousande long, and ten thousande broade: all the length shalbe fiue and twentie thousand, and the breadth ten thousande.
\v 14 And they shall not sel of it, neither change it, nor abalienate the first fruites of the land: for it is holy vnto the Lord.
\v 15 And the fiue thousand that are left in the breadth ouer against the fiue and twentie thousande, shall be a prophane place for the citie, for housing, and for suburbes, and the citie shalbe in the middes thereof.
\v 16 And these shall be the measures thereof, the North part fiue hundreth and foure thousand, and the South parte fiue hundreth and foure thousande, and the East parte fiue hundreth and foure thousande, and the West parte fiue hundreth and foure thousande.
\v 17 And the suburbes of the citie shall be toward the North two hundreth and fiftie, and towarde the South two hundreth and fiftie, and towarde the East two hundreth and fiftie, and towarde the West two hundreth and fiftie.
\v 18 And the residue in length ouer against the oblation of the holy portion shalbe ten thousand Eastwarde, and ten thousand Westwarde: and it shalbe ouer against the oblation of the holy portion, and the encrease thereof shall be for foode vnto them that serue in the citie.
\v 19 And they that serue in the citie, shalbe of all the tribes of Israel that shall serue therein.
\v 20 All the oblation shalbe fiue and twentie thousand with fiue and twentie thousand: you shall offer this oblation foure square for the Sanctuarie, and for the possession of the citie.
\v 21 And the residue shalbe for the prince on the one side and on the other of the oblation of the Sanctuarie, and of the possession of the citie, ouer against the fiue and twentie thousand of the oblation toward the East border, and Westward ouer against the fiue and twentie thousande towarde the West border, ouer against shalbe for the portion of the prince: this shall be the holy oblation, and the house of the Sanctuarie shalbe in the middes thereof.
\v 22 Moreouer, from the possession of the Leuites, and from the possession of the citie, that which is in the middes shall be the princes: betweene the border of Iudah, and betweene the border of Beniamin shall be the princes.
\v 23 And the rest of the tribes shalbe thus: from the East parte vnto the West parte Beniamin shalbe a portion.
\v 24 And by the border of Beniamin, from the East side vnto the West side Simeon a portion.
\v 25 And by the border of Simeon from the East part vnto the West part, Isshachar a portion.
\v 26 And by the border of Isshachar, from the East side vnto the West, Zebulun a portion.
\v 27 And by the border of Zebulun from the East parte vnto the West part, Gad a portion.
\v 28 And by the border of Gad at the South side, towarde Temath, the border shall be euen from Tamar vnto the waters of Meribath in Kadesh, and to the riuer, that runneth into the maine sea.
\v 29 This is the lande, which ye shall distribute vnto the tribes of Israel for inheritance, and these are their portions, saith the Lord God.
\v 30 And these are the boundes of the citie, on the North side fiue hundreth, and foure thousande measures.
\v 31 And the gates of the citie shalbe after the names of the tribes of Israel, the gates Northwarde, one gate of Reuben, one gate of Iudah, and one gate of Leui.
\v 32 And at the East side fiue hundreth and foure thousande, and three gates, and one gate of Ioseph, one gate of Beiamin, and one gate of Dan.
\v 33 And at the South side, fiue hundreth and foure thousande measures, and three portes, one gate of Simeon, one gate of Isshachar, and one gate of Zebulun.
\v 34 At the West side, fiue hundreth and foure thousand, with their three gates, one gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, and one gate of Naphtali.
\v 35 It was rounde about eighteene thousande measures, and the name of the citie from that day shalbe, The Lord is there.