\c 7
\p
\v 1 Nowe when Moses had finished the setting vp of the Tabernacle, and anointed it and sanctified it, and all the instruments thereof, and the altar with al the instruments thereof, and had anoynted them and sanctified them,
\v 2 Then the princes of Israel, heads ouer the houses of their fathers (they were the princes of the tribes, who were ouer them that were nombred) offred,
\v 3 And brought their offring before the Lord, sixe couered charets, and twelue oxen: one charet for two princes, and for euery one an oxe, and they offred them before the Tabernacle.
\v 4 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 5 Take these of them, that they may be to doe the seruice of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and thou shalt giue them vnto the Leuites, to euery man according vnto his office.
\v 6 So Moses tooke the charets and the oxen, and gaue them vnto the Leuites:
\v 7 Two charets and foure oxen hee gaue to the sonnes of Gershon, according vnto their office.
\v 8 And foure charets and eight oxen hee gaue to the sonnes of Merari according vnto their office, vnder the hand of Ithamar the sonne of Aaron the Priest.
\v 9 But to the sonnes of Kohath he gaue none, because the charge of the Sanctuarie belonged to them, which they did beare vpon their shoulders.
\v 10 The princes also offered in the dedication for the altar in the day that it was anoynted: then the princes offered their offering before the altar.
\v 11 And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, One prince one day, and an other prince an other day shall offer their offring, for the dedication of the altar.
\v 12 So then on the first day did Nahshon the sonne of Amminadab of ye tribe of Iudah offer his offring.
\v 13 And his offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuenty shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 14 An incense cup of gold of tenne shekels, ful of incense,
\v 15 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 16 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 17 And for peace offrings, two bullockes, fiue rams, fiue hee goates, and fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Nahshon the sonne of Amminadab.
\v 18 The second day Nethaneel, the sonne of Zuar, prince of the tribe of Issachar did offer:
\v 19 Who offred for his offring a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meat offring,
\v 20 An incense cup of gold of ten shekels, ful of incense,
\v 21 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 22 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 23 And for peace offrings, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Nethaneel the sonne of Zuar.
\v 24 The third day Eliab the sonne of Helon prince of the children of Zebulun offred.
\v 25 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirty shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 26 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, ful of incense,
\v 27 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 28 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 29 And for peace offrings, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offering of Eliab the sonne of Helon.
\v 30 The fourth day Elizur ye sonne of Shedeur prince of the children of Reuben offred.
\v 31 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuary, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 32 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
\v 33 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 34 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 35 And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, and fiue lambes of a yere olde: this was the offering of Elizur the sonne of Shedeur.
\v 36 The fifth day Shelumiel the sonne of Zurishaddai, prince of the children of Simeon offered.
\v 37 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuary, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 38 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
\v 39 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 40 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 41 And for a peace offring, two bullocks, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yere old: this was the offering of Shelumiel the sonne of Zurishaddai.
\v 42 The sixt day Eliasaph the sonne of Deuel prince of the children of Gad offred.
\v 43 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 44 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
\v 45 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yere olde, for a burnt offring,
\v 46 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 47 And for a peace offering, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yere olde: this was the offring of Eliasaph the sonne of Deuel.
\v 48 The seuenth day Elishama the sonne of Ammiud prince of the children of Ephraim offered.
\v 49 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuary, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offering,
\v 50 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
\v 51 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 52 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 53 And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Elishama the sonne of Ammiud.
\v 54 The eight day offred Gamliel the sonne of Pedazur, prince of the children of Manasseh.
\v 55 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 56 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
\v 57 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 58 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 59 And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Gamliel the sonne of Pedazur.
\v 60 The ninth day Abidan the sonne of Gideoni prince of the children of Beniamin offered.
\v 61 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 62 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
\v 63 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 64 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 65 And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Abidan the sonne of Gideoni.
\v 66 The tenth day Ahiezer the sonne of Ammishaddai, prince of the children of Dan offred.
\v 67 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 68 A golden incense cup of ten shekels full of incense,
\v 69 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 70 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 71 And for a peace offring, two bullocks, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Ahiezer the sonne of Ammishaddai.
\v 72 The eleuenth day Pagiel the sonne of Ocran, prince of the children of Asher offred.
\v 73 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 74 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, ful of incense,
\v 75 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 76 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 77 And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rams, fiue he goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Pagiel the sonne of Ocran.
\v 78 The twelfth day Ahira the sonne of Enan, prince of the children of Naphtali offred,
\v 79 His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
\v 80 A golden incense cup of ten shekels, ful of incense,
\v 81 A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yere olde for a burnt offring,
\v 82 An hee goate for a sinne offring,
\v 83 And for peace offerings, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offering of Ahira the sonne of Enan.
\v 84 This was the dedication of the Altar by the princes of Israel, whe it was anointed: twelue chargers of siluer, twelue siluer boules, twelue incense cuppes of golde,
\v 85 Euery charger, conteining an hundreth and thirtie shekels of siluer, and euery boule seuentie: all the siluer vessell conteined two thousande and foure hundreth shekels, after the shekell of the Sanctuarie.
\v 86 Twelue incense cups of gold ful of incense, conteining ten shekels euery cup, after the shekell of the Sanctuarie: all the gold of the incense cups was an hundreth and twentie shekels.
\v 87 All the bullockes for the burnt offering were twelue bullocks, the rams twelue, the lambs of a yeere olde twelue, with their meate offrings, and twelue hee goates for a sinne offring.
\v 88 And all the bullocks for the peace offrings were foure and twentie bullockes, the rammes sixtie, the hee goates sixtie, the lambes of a yeere olde sixtie: this was the dedication of the Altar, after that it was anointed.
\v 89 And when Moses went into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, to speake with God, he heard the voyce of one speaking vnto him from the Merciseat, that was vpon the Arke of the Testimonie betweene the two Cherubims, and he spake to him.