\c 5
\p
\v 1 And they came ouer to the other side of the sea into the countrey of the Gadarens.
\v 2 And when he was come out of the shippe, there met him incontinently out of the graues, a man which had an vncleane spirit:
\v 3 Who had his abiding among the graues, and no man could binde him, no not with chaines:
\v 4 Because that when hee was often bounde with fetters and chaines, he plucked the chaines asunder, and brake the fetters in pieces, neither could any man tame him.
\v 5 And alwayes both night and day he cryed in the mountaines, and in the graues, and strooke himselfe with stones.
\v 6 And when he saw Iesus afarre off, he ranne, and worshipped him,
\v 7 And cryed with a loude voyce, and saide, What haue I to doe with thee, Iesus the Sonne of the most high God? I will that thou sweare to me by God, that thou torment me not.
\v 8 (For hee saide vnto him, Come out of the man, thou vncleane spirit.)
\v 9 And he asked him, What is thy name? and hee answered, saying, My name is Legion: for we are many.
\v 10 And hee prayed him instantly, that hee would not send them away out of the countrey.
\v 11 Now there was there in the mountaines a great heard of swine, feeding.
\v 12 And all ye deuils besought him, saying, Send vs into the swine, that we may enter into them.
\v 13 And incontinently Iesus gaue them leaue. Then the vncleane spirites went out, and entred into the swine, and the heard ranne headlong from the high banke into the sea, (and there were about two thousand swine) and they were choked vp in the sea.
\v 14 And the swineheards fled, and told it in the citie, and in the countrey, and they came out to see what it was that was done.
\v 15 And they came to Iesus, and sawe him that had bene possessed with the deuil, and had the legion, sit both clothed, and in his right minde: and they were afraide.
\v 16 And they that saw it, tolde them, what was done to him that was possessed with the deuil, and concerning the swine.
\v 17 Then they began to pray him, that hee would depart from their coastes.
\v 18 And when he was come into the shippe, he that had bene possessed with the deuil, prayed him that he might be with him.
\v 19 Howbeit, Iesus would not suffer him, but said vnto him, Goe thy way home to thy friendes, and shewe them what great thinges the Lord hath done vnto thee, and howe hee hath had compassion on thee.
\v 20 So he departed, and began to publish in Decapolis, what great things Iesus had done vnto him: and all men did marueile.
\v 21 And when Iesus was come ouer againe by ship vnto the other side, a great multitude gathered together to him, and he was neere vnto the sea.
\v 22 And beholde, there came one of the rulers of the Synagogue, whose name was Iairus: and when he sawe him, he fell downe at his feete,
\v 23 And besought him instantly, saying, My litle daughter lyeth at point of death: I pray thee that thou wouldest come and lay thine hands on her, that she may be healed, and liue.
\v 24 Then hee went with him, and a great multitude folowed him, and thronged him.
\v 25 (And there was a certaine woman, which was diseased with an issue of blood twelue yeeres,
\v 26 And had suffred many things of many physicions, and had spent all that she had, and it auailed her nothing, but she became much worse.
\v 27 When she had heard of Iesus, shee came in the preasse behinde, and touched his garment.
\v 28 For she said, If I may but touch his clothes, I shalbe whole.
\v 29 And straightway the course of her blood was dried vp, and she felt in her body, that she was healed of that plague.
\v 30 And immediatly when Iesus did knowe in himselfe the vertue that went out of him, he turned him round about in the preasse, and said, Who hath touched my clothes?
\v 31 And his disciples said vnto him, Thou seest the multitude throng thee, and sayest thou, Who did touche me?
\v 32 And he looked round about, to see her that had done that.
\v 33 And the woman feared and trembled: for she knewe what was done in her, and shee came and fell downe before him, and tolde him the whole trueth.
\v 34 And hee saide to her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole: go in peace, and be whole of thy plague.)
\v 35 While hee yet spake, there came from the same ruler of the Synagogues house certaine which said, Thy daughter is dead: why diseasest thou the Master any further?
\v 36 Assoone as Iesus heard that word spoken, he said vnto the ruler of the Synagogue, Be not afraide: onely beleeue.
\v 37 And he suffered no man to follow him saue Peter and Iames, and Iohn the brother of Iames.
\v 38 So hee came vnto the house of the ruler of the Synagogue, and sawe the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.
\v 39 And he went in, and said vnto them, Why make ye this trouble, and weepe? the childe is not dead, but sleepeth.
\v 40 And they laught him to scorne: but hee put them all out, and tooke the father, and the mother of the childe, and them that were with him, and entred in where the childe lay,
\v 41 And tooke the childe by the hand, and saide vnto her, Talitha cumi, which is by interpretation, Mayden, I say vnto thee, arise.
\v 42 And straightway the mayden arose, and walked: for shee was of the age of twelue yeeres, and they were astonied out of measure.
\v 43 And he charged them straitly that no man should knowe of it, and commanded to giue her meate.