\c 40
\p
\v 1 Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 In the first day of the first moneth in the very first of the same moneth shalt thou set vp the Tabernacle, called ye Tabernacle of the Congregation:
\v 3 And thou shalt put therein the Arke of the Testimonie, and couer the Arke with the vaile.
\v 4 Also thou shalt bring in the Table, and set it in order as it doth require: thou shalt also bring in the Candlesticke, and light his lampes,
\v 5 And thou shalt set ye incense Altar of gold before the Arke of the Testimonie, and put the hanging at the doore of the Tabernacle.
\v 6 Moreouer, thou shalt set the burnt offering Altar before the doore of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 7 And thou shalt set the Lauer betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and put water therein.
\v 8 Then thou shalt appoynt the courte round about, and hang vp the hanging at the courte gate.
\v 9 After, thou shalt take the anoynting oyle, and anoynt the Tabernacle, and all that is therein, and halowe it with all the instruments thereof, that it may be holy.
\v 10 And thou shalt anoynt the Altar of the burnt offring, and all his instruments, and shalt sanctifie the Altar, that it may bee an altar most holie.
\v 11 Also thou shalt anoynt the Lauer, and his foote, and shalt sanctifie it.
\v 12 Then thou shalt bring Aaron and his sonnes vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and wash them with water.
\v 13 And thou shalt put vpon Aaron the holy garmentes, and shalt anoynt him, and sanctifie him, that he may minister vnto me in the Priestes office.
\v 14 Thou shalt also bring his sonnes, and clothe them with garments,
\v 15 And shalt anoynt them as thou diddest anoynt their father, that they may minister vnto mee in the Priestes office: for their anoynting shall be a signe, that the Priesthood shall be euerlasting vnto them throughout their generations.
\v 16 So Moses did according to all that ye Lord had commanded him: so did he.
\v 17 Thus was the Tabernacle reared vp the first day of the first moneth in the seconde yeere.
\v 18 Then Moses reared vp the Tabernacle and fastened his sockets, and set vp the boardes thereof, and put in the barres of it, and reared vp his pillars.
\v 19 And he spred the couering ouer the Tabernacle, and put the couering of that couering on hie aboue it, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 20 And he tooke and put the Testimonie in the Arke, and put the barres in the ringes of the Arke, and set the Merciseate on hie vpon the Arke.
\v 21 He brought also the Arke into the Tabernacle, and hanged vp the couering vaile, and couered the Arke of the Testimonie, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 22 Furthermore he put the Table in the Tabernacle of the Congregation in the Northside of the Tabernacle, without the vaile,
\v 23 And set the bread in order before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 24 Also he put the Candlesticke in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, ouer against the Table toward ye Southside of the Tabernacle.
\v 25 And he lighted the lampes before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 26 Moreouer he set the golden Altar in the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the vayle,
\v 27 And burnt sweete incense thereon, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 28 Also he hanged vp the vayle at the doore of the Tabernacle.
\v 29 After, he set the burnt offring Altar without the doore of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and offered the burnt offering and the sacrifice thereon, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 30 Likewise he set the Lauer betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and powred water therein to wash with.
\v 31 So Moses and Aaron, and his sonnes washed their handes and their feete thereat.
\v 32 When they went into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and when they approched to the Altar, they washed, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 33 Finally, he reared vp the court rounde about the Tabernacle and the Altar, and hanged vp the vaile at the court gate: so Moses finished the worke.
\v 34 Then the cloud couered the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the glorie of the Lord filled the Tabernacle.
\v 35 So Moses could not enter into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, because the cloude abode thereon, and the glorie of the Lord filled the Tabernacle.
\v 36 Nowe when the cloude ascended vp from the Tabernacle, the children of Israel went forward in all their iourneyes.
\v 37 But if the cloude ascended not, then they iourneyed not till the day that it ascended.
\v 38 For the cloude of the Lord was vpon the Tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their iourneyes.