\c 7
\p
\v 1 Afterwarde when the King sate in his house and the Lord had giuen him rest rounde about from all his enemies,
\v 2 The King saide vnto Nathan the Prophet, Beholde, nowe I dwel in an house of cedar trees, and the Arke of God remayneth within the curtaines.
\v 3 Then Nathan sayde vnto the King, Go, and doe all that is in thine heart: for the Lord is with thee.
\v 4 And the same night the worde of the Lord came vnto Nathan, saying,
\v 5 Goe and tell my seruant Dauid, Thus saieth the Lord, Shalt thou buylde me an house for my dwelling?
\v 6 For I haue dwelt in no house since the time that I brought the children of Israel out of Egypt vnto this day, but haue walked in a tent and tabernacle.
\v 7 In al the places wherein I haue walked with all the children of Israel, spake I one worde with any of the tribes of Israel when I commanded the iudges to feede my people Israel? or sayde I, Why build ye not me an house of cedar trees?
\v 8 Nowe therefore so say vnto my seruant Dauid, Thus saieth the Lord of hostes, I tooke thee from the sheepecote following the sheepe, that thou mightest bee ruler ouer my people, ouer Israel.
\v 9 And I was with thee wheresoeuer thou hast walked, and haue destroyed all thine enemies out of thy sight, and haue made thee a great name, like vnto the name of the great men that are in the earth.
\v 10 (Also I will appoynt a place for my people Israel, and will plant it, that they may dwell in a place of their owne, and moue no more, neither shall wicked people trouble them any more as before time,
\v 11 And since the time that I set Iudges ouer my people of Israel) and I will giue thee rest from al thine enemies: also the Lord telleth thee, that he will make thee an house.
\v 12 And when thy daies bee fulfilled, thou shalt sleepe with thy fathers, and I wil set vp thy seede after thee, which shall proceede out of thy body, and will stablish his kingdome.
\v 13 He shall buyld an house for my Name, and I will stablish ye throne of his kingdome for euer.
\v 14 I will be his father, and hee shall bee my sonne: and if he sinne, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the plagues of the children of men.
\v 15 But my mercy shall not depart away from him, as I tooke it from Saul whome I haue put away before thee.
\v 16 And thine house shall be stablished and thy kingdome for euer before thee, euen thy throne shalbe stablished for euer.
\v 17 According to all these wordes, and according to all this vision, Nathan spake thus vnto Dauid.
\v 18 Then King Dauid went in, and sate before the Lord, and sayde, Who am I, O Lord God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me hitherto?
\v 19 And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord God, therefore thou hast spoken also of thy seruants house for a great while: but doth this appertaine to man, O Lord God?
\v 20 And what can Dauid say more vnto thee? for thou, Lord God, knowest thy seruant.
\v 21 For thy words sake, and according to thine owne heart hast thou done all these great things, to make them knowen vnto thy seruant.
\v 22 Wherefore thou art great, O Lord God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that wee haue heard with our eares.
\v 23 And what one people in the earth is like thy people, like Israel? whose God went and redeemed them to himselfe, that they might be his people, and that hee might make him a name, and do for you great things, and terrible for thy land, O Lord, euen for thy people, whome thou redeemedst to thee out of Egypt, from the nations, and their gods?
\v 24 For thou hast ordeyned to thy selfe thy people Israel to be thy people for euer: and thou Lord art become their God.
\v 25 Nowe therefore, O Lord God, confirme for euer the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy seruant and his house, and doe as thou hast sayde.
\v 26 And let thy Name bee magnified for euer by them that shall say, The Lord of hostes is the God ouer Israel: and let the house of thy seruant Dauid be stablished before thee.
\v 27 For thou, O Lord of hostes, God of Israel, hast reueiled vnto thy seruant, saying, I will build thee an house: therefore hath thy seruant bene bold to pray this prayer vnto thee.
\v 28 Therefore now, O Lord God, (for thou art God, and thy words be true, and thou hast tolde this goodnes vnto thy seruant)
\v 29 Therefore nowe let it please thee to blesse the house of thy seruant, that it may continue for euer before thee: for thou, O Lord God, hast spoken it: and let the house of thy seruant be blessed for euer, with thy blessing.