\c 5
\p
\v 1 After that, there was a feast of the Iewes, and Iesus went vp to Hierusalem.
\v 2 And there is at Hierusalem by the place of the sheepe, a poole called in Ebrew Bethesda, hauing fiue porches:
\v 3 In the which lay a great multitude of sicke folke, of blinde, halte, and withered, wayting for the mouing of the water.
\v 4 For an Angel went downe at a certaine season into the poole, and troubled the water: whosoeuer then first, after the stirring of the water, stepped in, was made whole of whatsoeuer disease he had.
\v 5 And a certaine man was there, which had bene diseased eight and thirtie yeeres.
\v 6 When Iesus sawe him lie, and knew that he nowe long time had bene diseased, he saide vnto him, Wilt thou be made whole?
\v 7 The sicke man answered him, Sir, I haue no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the poole: but while I am comming, another steppeth downe before me.
\v 8 Iesus said vnto him, Rise: take vp thy bed, and walke.
\v 9 And immediatly the man was made whole, and tooke vp his bed, and walked: and the same day was the Sabbath.
\v 10 The Iewes therefore said to him that was made whole, It is the Sabbath day: it is not lawfull for thee to cary thy bed.
\v 11 He answered them, He that made me whole, he said vnto me, Take vp thy bed, and walke.
\v 12 Then asked they him, What man is that which said vnto thee, Take vp thy bed and walke?
\v 13 And he that was healed, knewe not who it was: for Iesus had conueied himselfe away from the multitude that was in that place.
\v 14 And after that, Iesus founde him in the Temple, and said vnto him, Beholde, thou art made whole: sinne no more, lest a worse thing come vnto thee.
\v 15 The man departed and tolde the Iewes that it was Iesus, which had made him whole.
\v 16 And therefore the Iewes did persecute Iesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the Sabbath day.
\v 17 But Iesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I worke.
\v 18 Therefore the Iewes sought the more to kill him: not onely because he had broken the Sabbath: but said also that God was his Father, and made himselfe equall with God.
\v 19 Then answered Iesus, and said vnto them, Verely, verely I say vnto you, The Sonne can doe nothing of himselfe, saue that he seeth the Father doe: for whatsoeuer things he doth, the same things doeth the Sonne in like maner.
\v 20 For the Father loueth the Sonne, and sheweth him all things, whatsoeuer he himselfe doeth, and he will shewe him greater workes then these, that ye should marueile.
\v 21 For likewise as the Father rayseth vp the dead, and quickeneth them, so the Sonne quickeneth whom he will.
\v 22 For the Father iudgeth no man, but hath committed all iudgement vnto the Sonne,
\v 23 Because that all men shoulde honour the Sonne, as they honour the Father: he that honoureth not the Sonne, the same honoureth not the Father, which hath sent him.
\v 24 Verely, verely I say vnto you, he that heareth my worde, and beleeueth him that sent me, hath euerlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but hath passed from death vnto life.
\v 25 Verely, verely I say vnto you, the houre shall come, and now is, when the dead shall heare the voyce of the Sonne of God: and they that heare it, shall liue.
\v 26 For as the Father hath life in himselfe, so likewise hath he giuen to the Sonne to haue life in himselfe,
\v 27 And hath giuen him power also to execute iudgement, in that he is the Sonne of man.
\v 28 Marueile not at this: for the houre shall come, in the which all that are in the graues, shall heare his voyce.
\v 29 And they shall come foorth, that haue done good, vnto ye resurrection of life: but they that haue done euil, vnto the resurrection of condemnation.
\v 30 I can doe nothing of mine owne selfe: as I heare, I iudge: and my iudgement is iust, because I seeke not mine owne will, but the will of the Father who hath sent me.
\v 31 If I should beare witnesse of my selfe, my witnesse were not true.
\v 32 There is another that beareth witnesse of me, and I know that the witnesse, which he beareth of me, is true.
\v 33 Ye sent vnto Iohn, and he bare witnesse vnto the trueth.
\v 34 But I receiue not the record of man: neuerthelesse these things I say, that ye might be saued.
\v 35 He was a burning, and a shining candle: and ye would for a season haue reioyced in his light.
\v 36 But I haue greater witnesse then the witnesse of Iohn: for the workes which the Father hath giuen me to finish, the same workes that I doe, beare witnesse of me, that the Father sent me.
\v 37 And the Father himselfe, which hath sent me, beareth witnesse of me. Ye haue not heard his voyce at any time, neither haue ye seene his shape.
\v 38 And his worde haue you not abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye beleeued not.
\v 39 Searche the Scriptures: for in them ye thinke to haue eternall life, and they are they which testifie of me.
\v 40 But ye will not come to me, that ye might haue life.
\v 41 I receiue not the prayse of men.
\v 42 But I know you, that ye haue not the loue of God in you.
\v 43 I am come in my Fathers Name, and ye receiue me not: if another shall come in his owne name, him will ye receiue.
\v 44 How can ye beleeue, which receiue honour one of another, and seeke not the honour that commeth of God alone?
\v 45 Doe not thinke that I will accuse you to my Father: there is one that accuseth you, euen Moses, in whom ye trust.
\v 46 For had ye beleeued Moses, ye would haue beleeued me: for he wrote of me.
\v 47 But if ye beleeue not his writings, how shall ye beleeue my wordes?