\c 11
\p
\v 1 And so it was, that as he was praying in a certaine place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said vnto him, Lord, teache vs to pray, as Iohn also taught his disciples.
\v 2 And he said vnto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heauen, halowed be thy Name: Thy kingdome come: Let thy will be done, euen in earth, as it is in heauen:
\v 3 Our dayly bread giue vs for the day:
\v 4 And forgiue vs our sinnes: for euen we forgiue euery man that is indetted to vs: And leade vs not into temptation: but deliuer vs from euill.
\v 5 Moreouer he said vnto them, Which of you shall haue a friende, and shall goe to him at midnight, and say vnto him, Friende, lende mee three loaues?
\v 6 For a friende of mine is come out of the way to me, and I haue nothing to set before him:
\v 7 And hee within shoulde answere, and say, Trouble mee not: the doore is nowe shut, and my children are with mee in bed: I can not rise and giue them to thee.
\v 8 I say vnto you, Though he would not arise and giue him, because he is his friende, yet doubtlesse because of his importunitie, hee woulde rise, and giue him as many as he needed.
\v 9 And I say vnto you, Aske, and it shall be giuen you: seeke, and yee shall finde: knocke, and it shalbe opened vnto you.
\v 10 For euery one that asketh, receiueth: and he that seeketh, findeth: and to him that knocketh, it shalbe opened.
\v 11 If a sonne shall aske bread of any of you that is a father, will he giue him a stone? or if hee aske a fish, will he for a fish giue him a serpent?
\v 12 Or if hee aske an egge, will hee giue him a scorpion?
\v 13 If yee then which are euill, can giue good giftes vnto your children, howe much more shall your heauenly Father giue the holy Ghost to them, that desire him?
\v 14 Then hee cast out a deuill which was domme: and when the deuill was gone out, the domme spake, and the people wondered.
\v 15 But some of them said, He casteth out deuils through Beelzebub the chiefe of ye deuils.
\v 16 And others tempted him, seeking of him a signe from heauen.
\v 17 But he knew their thoughts, and said vnto them, Euery kingdom deuided against it self, shall be desolate, and an house deuided against an house, falleth.
\v 18 So if Satan also bee deuided against himselfe, howe shall his kingdome stande, because yee say that I cast out deuils through Beelzebub?
\v 19 If I through Beelzebub cast out deuils, by whome doe your children cast them out? Therefore shall they be your iudges.
\v 20 But if I by ye finger of God cast out deuils, doutles the kingdome of God is come vnto you.
\v 21 When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, the thinges that hee possesseth, are in peace.
\v 22 But when a stronger then hee, commeth vpon him, and ouercommeth him: hee taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted, and deuideth his spoiles.
\v 23 He that is not with me, is against me: and he that gathereth not with me, scattereth.
\v 24 When the vncleane spirite is gone out of a man, he walketh through drie places, seeking rest: and when he findeth none he saieth, I wil returne vnto mine house whence I came out.
\v 25 And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished.
\v 26 Then goeth hee, and taketh to him seuen other spirites worse then himselfe: and they enter in, and dwel there: so the last state of that man is worse then the first.
\v 27 And it came to passe as he sayde these thinges, a certaine woman of the companie lifted vp her voyce, and sayde vnto him, Blessed is the wombe that bare thee, and the pappes which thou hast sucked.
\v 28 But hee saide, Yea, rather blessed are they that heare the woorde of God, and keepe it.
\v 29 And when the people were gathered thicke together, he began to say, This is a wicked generation: they seeke a signe, and there shall no signe be giuen them, but the signe of Ionas the Prophet.
\v 30 For as Ionas was a signe to the Niniuites: so shall also the Sonne of man bee to this generation.
\v 31 The Queene of the South shall rise in iudgement, with the men of this generation, and shall condemne them: for shee came from the vtmost partes of the earth to heare the wisedome of Salomon, and beholde, a greater then Salomon is here.
\v 32 The men of Niniue shall rise in iudgement with this generation, and shall condemne it: for they repented at the preaching of Ionas: and beholde, a greater then Ionas is here.
\v 33 No man when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a priuie place, neither vnder a bushell: but on a candlesticke, that they which come in, may see the light.
\v 34 The light of the bodie is the eye: therefore when thine eye is single, then is thy whole bodie light: but if thine eye be euill, then thy bodie is darke.
\v 35 Take heede therefore, that the light which is in thee, be not darkenesse.
\v 36 If therefore thy whole body shall be light, hauing no part darke, then shall all be light, euen as when a candle doth light thee with the brightnesse.
\v 37 And as hee spake, a certaine Pharise besought him to dine with him: and hee went in, and sate downe at table.
\v 38 And when the Pharise saw it, he marueiled that he had not first washed before dinner.
\v 39 And the Lord saide to him, In deede yee Pharises make cleane the outside of the cuppe, and of the platter: but the inwarde part is full of rauening and wickednesse.
\v 40 Ye fooles, did not he that made that which is without, make that which is within also?
\v 41 Therefore, giue almes of those thinges which you haue, and beholde, all thinges shall be cleane to you.
\v 42 But wo be to you, Pharises: for ye tithe the mynt and the rewe, and all maner herbs, and passe ouer iudgement and the loue of God: these ought yee to haue done, and not to haue left the other vndone.
\v 43 Wo be to you, Pharises: for ye loue the vppermost seats in the Synagogues, and greetings in the markets.
\v 44 Wo be to you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites: for ye are as graues which appeare not, and the men that walke ouer them, perceiue not.
\v 45 Then answered one of the Lawyers, and saide vnto him, Master, thus saying thou puttest vs to rebuke also.
\v 46 And he sayde, Wo be to you also, yee Lawyers: for yee lade men with burdens grieuous to be borne, and yee your selues touche not the burdens with one of your fingers.
\v 47 Wo be to you: for ye builde the sepulchres of the Prophetes, and your fathers killed them.
\v 48 Truely ye beare witnesse, and allowe the deedes of your fathers: for they killed them, and yee build their sepulchres.
\v 49 Therefore said the wisedome of God, I wil sende them Prophets and Apostles, and of them they shall slaie, and persecute away,
\v 50 That the blood of all the Prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation,
\v 51 From the blood of Abel vnto the blood of Zacharias, which was slaine betweene the altar and the Temple: verely I say vnto you, it shall be required of this generation.
\v 52 Wo be to you, Lawyers: for ye haue taken away the key of knowledge: ye entred not in your selues, and them that came in, ye forbade.
\v 53 And as he sayde these things vnto them, the Scribes and Pharises began to vrge him sore, and to prouoke him to speake of many things,
\v 54 Laying wait for him, and seeking to catche some thing of his mouth, whereby they might accuse him.