\c 1
\p
\v 1 The burden of Nineueh. The booke of the vision of Nahum the Elkeshite.
\v 2 God is ielous, and the Lord reuengeth: the Lord reuengeth: euen the Lord of anger, the Lord will take vengeance on his aduersaries, and he reserueth wrath for his enemies.
\v 3 The Lord is slow to anger, but he is great in power, and will not surely cleare the wicked: the Lord hath his way in ye whirlewind, and in the storme, and the cloudes are the dust of his feete.
\v 4 He rebuketh the sea, and dryeth it, and he dryeth vp all the riuers: Bashan is wasted and Carmel, and the floure of Lebanon is wasted.
\v 5 The mountaines tremble for him, and the hilles melt, and the earth is burnt at his sight, yea, the worlde, and all that dwell therein.
\v 6 Who can stande before his wrath? or who can abide in the fiercenesse of his wrath? his wrath is powred out like fire, and the rockes are broken by him.
\v 7 The Lord is good and as a strong hold in the day of trouble, and he knoweth them that trust in him.
\v 8 But passing ouer as with a flood, he will vtterly destroy the place thereof, and darknesse shall pursue his enemies.
\v 9 What doe ye imagine against the Lord? he wil make an vtter destruction: affliction shall not rise vp the seconde time.
\v 10 For he shall come as vnto thornes folden one in another, and as vnto drunkards in their drunkennesse: they shall be deuoured as stubble fully dryed.
\v 11 There commeth one out of thee that imagineth euill against the Lord, euen a wicked counsellour.
\v 12 Thus saith the Lord, Though they be quiet, and also many, yet thus shall they be cut off when he shall passe by: though I haue afflicted thee, I will afflict thee no more.
\v 13 For nowe I will breake his yoke from thee, and will burst thy bonds in sunder.
\v 14 And the Lord hath giuen a commandement concerning thee, that no more of thy name be sowen: out of the house of thy gods will I cut off the grauen, and the molten image: I will make it thy graue for thee, for thou art vile.
\v 15 Beholde vpon the mountaines the feete of him that declareth, and publisheth peace: O Iudah, keepe thy solemne feastes, perfourme thy vowes: for the wicked shall no more passe thorowe thee: he is vtterly cut off.