\c 12
\p
\v 1 These also are the Priestes and the Leuites that went vp with Zerubbabel, the sonne of Shealtiel, and Ieshua: to wit, Seraiah, Ieremiah, Ezra,
\v 2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
\v 3 Shecaniah, Rehum, Merimoth,
\v 4 Iddo, Ginnetho, Abiiah,
\v 5 Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
\v 6 Shemaiah, and Ioiarib, Iedaiah,
\v 7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiiah, Iedaiah: these were the chiefe of the Priests, and of their brethren in the dayes of Ieshua.
\v 8 And the Leuites, Ieshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Iudah, Mattaniah were ouer the thankesgiuings, he, and his brethren.
\v 9 And Bakbukiah and Vnni, and their brethren were about them in the watches.
\v 10 And Ieshua begate Ioiakim: Ioiakim also begate Eliashib, and Eliashib begate Ioiada.
\v 11 And Ioiada begate Ionathan, and Ionathan begate Iaddua,
\v 12 And in the daies of Ioiakim were these, the chiefe fathers of the Priests: vnder Seraiah was Meraiah, vnder Ieremiah, Hananiah,
\v 13 Vnder Ezra, Meshullam, vnder Amariah, Iehohanan,
\v 14 Vnder Melicu, Ionathan, vnder Shebaniah, Ioseph,
\v 15 Vnder Harim, Adna, vnder Maraioth, Helkai,
\v 16 Vnder Iddo, Zechariah, vnder Ginnithon, Meshullam,
\v 17 Vnder Abiiah, Zichri, vnder Miniamin, and vnder Moadiah, Piltai,
\v 18 Vnder Bilgah, Shammua, vnder Shemaiah, Iehonathan,
\v 19 Vnder Ioiarib, Mattenai, vnder Iedaiah, Vzzi,
\v 20 Vnder Sallai, Kallai, vnder Amok, Eber,
\v 21 Vnder Hilkiah, Hashabiah, vnder Iedaiah, Nethaneel.
\v 22 In the dayes of Eliashib, Ioiada, and Iohanan and Iaddua were the chiefe fathers of the Leuites written, and the Priests in the reigne of Darius the Persian.
\v 23 The sonnes of Leui, the chiefe fathers were written in the booke of the Chronicles euen vnto the dayes of Iohanan the sonne of Eliashib.
\v 24 And the chiefe of the Leuites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Ieshua the sonne of Kadmiel, and their brethren about them to giue prayse and thankes, according to the ordinance of Dauid the man of God, ward ouer against warde.
\v 25 Mattaniah and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon and Akkub were porters keeping the warde at the thresholds of the gates.
\v 26 These were in the dayes of Ioiakim, the sonne of Ieshua, the sonne of Iozadak, and in the dayes of Nehemiah the captaine, and of Ezra the Priest and scribe.
\v 27 And in the dedication of the wall at Ierusalem they sought the Leuites out of all their places to bring them to Ierusalem to keepe the dedication and gladnes, both with thankesgiuings and with songs, cymbales, violes and with harpes.
\v 28 Then the singers gathered themselues together both from the plaine countrey about Ierusalem, and from the villages of Netophathi,
\v 29 And from the house of Gilgal, and out of the countreis of Geba, and Azmaueth: for the singers had built them villages round about Ierusalem.
\v 30 And the Priests and Leuites were purified, and clensed the people, and the gates, and the wall.
\v 31 And I brought vp the princes of Iudah vpon the wall, and appointed two great companies to giue thankes, and the one went on the right hand of the wall toward the dung gate.
\v 32 And after them went Hoshaiah, and halfe of the princes of Iudah,
\v 33 And Azariah, Ezra and Meshullam,
\v 34 Iudah, Beniamin, and Shemaiah, and Ieremiah,
\v 35 And of the Priests sonnes with trumpets, Zechariah the sonne of Ionathan, the sonne of Shemaiah, the sonne of Mattaniah, the sonne of Michaiah, the sonne of Zaccur, ye sonne of Asaph.
\v 36 And his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azareel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethaneel, and Iudah, Hanani, with the musicall instruments of Dauid the man of God: and Ezra the scribe went before them.
\v 37 And to the gate of the fountaine, euen ouer against them went they vp by the staires of the citie of Dauid, at the going vp of the wall beyond the house of Dauid, euen vnto the water gate Eastward.
\v 38 And the seconde companie of them that gaue thankes, went on the other side, and I after them, and the halfe of the people was vpon the wall, and vpon the towre of the furnaces euen vnto the broad wall.
\v 39 And vpon the gate of Ephraim, and vpon the olde gate, and vpon the fishgate, and the towre of Hananeel, and the towre of Meah, euen vnto the sheepegate: and they stood in the gate of the warde.
\v 40 So stood the two companies (of them that gaue thankes) in the house of God, and I and the halfe of the rulers with me.
\v 41 The Priests also, Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, Hananiah, with trumpets,
\v 42 And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Vzzi, and Iehohanan, and Malchiiah, and Elam, and Ezer: and the singers sang loude, hauing Izrahiah which was the ouerseer.
\v 43 And the same day they offered great sacrifices and reioyced: for God had giuen them great ioy, so that both the women, and the children were ioyfull: and the ioy of Ierusalem was heard farre off.
\v 44 Also at the same time were men appointed ouer the chambers of the store for the offerings (for the first fruites, and for the tithes) to gather into them out of the fieldes of the cities, the portions of the Law for the Priests and the Leuites: for Iudah reioyced for the Priests and for the Leuites, that serued.
\v 45 And both the singers and the Leuites kept the ward of their God, and the warde of the purification according to the commandement of Dauid, and Salomon his sonne.
\v 46 For in the dayes of Dauid and Asaph, of olde were chiefe singers, and songs of praise and thankesgiuing vnto God.
\v 47 And in the dayes of Zerubbabel, and in the dayes of Nehemiah did al Israel giue portions vnto the singers and porters, euerie day his portion, and they gaue the holy things vnto the Leuites, and the Leuites gaue the holy things vnto the sonnes of Aaron.