\c 30
\p
\v 1 And when Rahel saw that she bare Iaakob no children, Rahel enuied her sister, and said vnto Iaakob, Giue me children, or els I dye.
\v 2 Then Iaakobs anger was kindled against Rahel, and he sayde, Am I in Gods steade, which hath withholden from thee the fruite of the wombe?
\v 3 And she said, Behold my maide Bilhah, goe in to her, and she shall beare vpon my knees, and I shall haue children also by her.
\v 4 Then shee gaue him Bilhah her mayde to wife, and Iaakob went in to her.
\v 5 So Bilhah conceiued and bare Iaakob a sonne.
\v 6 Then said Rahel, God hath giuen sentence on my side, and hath also heard my voyce, and hath giuen mee a sonne: therefore called shee his name, Dan.
\v 7 And Bilhah Rahels maide coceiued againe, and bare Iaakob the second sonne.
\v 8 Then Rahel said, with excellent wrestlings haue I wrestled with my sister, and haue gotten the vpper hande: and shee called his name, Naphtali.
\v 9 And when Leah saw that she had left bearing, shee tooke Zilpah her mayde, and gaue her Iaakob to wife.
\v 10 And Zilpah Leahs mayde bare Iaakob a sonne.
\v 11 Then sayd Leah, A companie commeth: and she called his name, Gad.
\v 12 Againe Zilpah Leahs mayde bare Iaakob another sonne.
\v 13 Then sayde Leah, Ah, blessed am I, for the daughters will blesse me. and she called his name, Asher.
\v 14 Nowe Reuben went in the dayes of the wheateharuest, and founde mandrakes in the fielde and brought them vnto his mother Leah. Then sayde Rahel to Leah, Giue me, I pray thee, of thy sonnes mandrakes.
\v 15 But shee answered her, Is it a small matter for thee to take mine husband, except thou take my sonnes mandrakes also? Then sayde Rahel, Therefore he shall sleepe with thee this night for thy sonnes mandrakes.
\v 16 And Iaakob came from the fielde in the euening, and Leah went out to meete him, and sayde, Come in to mee, for I haue bought and payed for thee with my sonnes mandrakes: and he slept with her that night.
\v 17 And God heard Leah and shee conceiued, and bare vnto Iaakob the fift sonne.
\v 18 Then said Leah, God hath giuen me my reward, because I gaue my mayde to my husband, and she called his name Issachar.
\v 19 After, Leah conceiued againe, and bare Iaakob the sixt sonne.
\v 20 Then Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowrie: nowe will mine husband dwell with me, because I haue borne him sixe sonnes: and she called his name Zebulun.
\v 21 After that, shee bare a daughter, and shee called her name Dinah.
\v 22 And God remembred Rahel, and God heard her, and opened her wombe.
\v 23 So she conceiued and bare a sonne, and said, God hath taken away my rebuke.
\v 24 And shee called his name Ioseph, saying, The Lord wil giue me yet another sonne.
\v 25 And assoone as Rahel had borne Ioseph, Iaakob said to Laban, Sende me away that I may go vnto my place and to my countrey.
\v 26 Giue me my wiues and my children, for whom I haue serued thee, and let me go: for thou knowest what seruice I haue done thee.
\v 27 To whom Laban answered, If I haue nowe found fauour in thy sight tarie: I haue perceiued that the Lord hath blessed me for thy sake.
\v 28 Also he said, Appoynt vnto me thy wages, and I will giue it thee.
\v 29 But he sayd vnto him, Thou knowest, what seruice I haue done thee, and in what taking thy cattell hath bene vnder me.
\v 30 For the litle, that thou haddest before I came, is increased into a multitude: and the Lord hath blessed thee by my comming: but nowe when shall I trauell for mine owne house also?
\v 31 Then he saide, What shall I giue thee? And Iaakob answered, Thou shalt giue mee nothing at all: if thou wilt doe this thing for mee, I will returne, feede, and keepe thy sheepe.
\v 32 I wil passe through all thy flockes this day, and separate from them all the sheepe with litle spots and great spots, and al blacke lambes among the sheepe, and the great spotted, and litle spotted among the goates: and it shalbe my wages.
\v 33 So shall my righteousnesse answere for me hereafter, when it shall come for my rewarde before thy face, and euery one that hath not litle or great spots among the goates, and blacke among the sheepe, the same shalbe theft with me.
\v 34 Then Laban sayde, Goe to, woulde God it might be according to thy saying.
\v 35 Therefore he tooke out the same day the hee goates that were partie coloured and with great spots, and all the shee goates with litle and great spots, and all that had white in them, and all the blacke among the sheepe, and put them in the keeping of his sonnes.
\v 36 And hee set three dayes iourney betweene himselfe and Iaakob. And Iaakob kept the rest of Labans sheepe.
\v 37 Then Iaakob tooke rods of greene popular, and of hasell, and of the chesnut tree, and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appeare in the rods.
\v 38 Then he put the rods, which he had pilled, in the gutters and watering troughes, when the sheepe came to drink, before the sheepe. (for they were in heate, when they came to drinke)
\v 39 And the sheepe were in heate before the rods, and afterward brought forth yong of partie colour, and with small and great spots.
\v 40 And Iaakob parted these lambes, and turned the faces of the flocke towardes these lambes partie coloured and all maner of blacke, among the sheepe of Laban: so hee put his owne flockes by themselues, and put them not with Labans flocke.
\v 41 And in euery ramming time of the stronger sheepe, Iaakob layde the rods before the eyes of the sheepe in the gutters, that they might conceiue before the rods.
\v 42 But when the sheepe were feeble, hee put them not in: and so the feebler were Labans, and the stronger Iaakobs.
\v 43 So the man increased exceedingly, and had many flockes, and maide seruantes, and men seruants, and camels and asses.