\c 39
\p
\v 1 In the ninth yeere of Zedekiah King of Iudah in the tenth moneth, came Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel and all his hoste against Ierusalem, and they besieged it.
\v 2 And in the eleuenth yeere of Zedekiah in the fourth moneth, the ninth day of the moneth, the citie was broken vp.
\v 3 And all the princes of the King of Babel came in, and sate in the middle gate, euen Neregal, Sharezer, Samgar-nebo, Sarsechim, Rab-saris, Neregal, Sharezer, Rab-mag with all the residue of the princes of the King of Babel.
\v 4 And when Zedekiah the King of Iudah saw them, and all the men of warre, then they fled, and went out of the citie by night, through the Kings garden, and by the gate betweene the two walles, and he went toward the wildernes.
\v 5 But the Caldeans hoste pursued after them, and ouertooke Zedekiah in the desart of Iericho: and when they had taken him, they brought him to Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel vnto Riblah in the land of Hamath, where he gaue iudgement vpon him.
\v 6 Then the King of Babel slewe the sonnes of Zedekiah in Riblah before his eyes: also the King of Babel slewe all the nobles of Iudah.
\v 7 Moreouer he put out Zedekiahs eyes, and bound him in chaines, to cary him to Babel.
\v 8 And the Caldeans burnt the Kings house, and the houses of the people with fire, and brake downe the walles of Ierusalem.
\v 9 Then Nebuzar-adan the chiefe stewarde caried away captiue into Babel the remnant of the people, that remained in the citie, and those that were fled and fallen vnto him, with the rest of the people that remained.
\v 10 But Nebuzar-adan the chiefe steward left the poore that had nothing in the land of Iudah, and gaue them vineyards and fieldes at the same time.
\v 11 Nowe Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel gaue charge concerning Ieremiah vnto Nebuzar-adan the chiefe stewarde, saying,
\v 12 Take him, and looke well to him, and doe him no harme, but doe vnto him euen as he shall say vnto thee.
\v 13 So Nebuzar-adan the chiefe steward sent, and Nebushazban, Rabsaris, and Neregal, Sharezar, Rab-mag, and all the King of Babels princes:
\v 14 Euen they sent, and tooke Ieremiah out of the court of the prison, and committed him vnto Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam the sonne of Shaphan, that he should cary him home: so he dwelt among the people.
\v 15 Now the worde of the Lord came vnto Ieremiah, while he was shut vp in the court of the prison, saying,
\v 16 Go and speake to Ebed-melech the blacke More, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Beholde, I wil bring my wordes vpon this citie for euill, and not for good, and they shalbe accomplished in that day before thee.
\v 17 But I wil deliuer thee in that day, saith the Lord, and thou shalt not be giuen into the hand of the men whome thou fearest.
\v 18 For I will surely deliuer thee, and thou shalt not fall by the sworde, but thy life shall be for a praye vnto thee, because thou hast put thy trust in me, sayth the Lord.