\c 15
\p
\v 1 And anon in the dawning, the hie Priestes helde a Councill with the Elders, and the Scribes, and the whole Council, and bound Iesus, and led him away, and deliuered him to Pilate.
\v 2 Then Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Iewes? And hee answered, and sayde vnto him, Thou sayest it.
\v 3 And the hie Priestes accused him of many things.
\v 4 Wherefore Pilate asked him againe, saying, Answerest thou nothing? beholde howe many things they witnesse against thee.
\v 5 But Iesus answered no more at all, so that Pilate marueiled.
\v 6 Nowe at the feast, Pilate did deliuer a prisoner vnto them, whomesoeuer they woulde desire.
\v 7 Then there was one named Barabbas, which was bounde with his fellowes, that had made insurrection, who in the insurrection had committed murder.
\v 8 And the people cried aloude, and began to desire that he woulde doe as he had euer done vnto them.
\v 9 Then Pilate answered them, and said, Will ye that I let loose vnto you the King of ye Iewes?
\v 10 For he knewe that the hie Priestes had deliuered him of enuie.
\v 11 But the high Priestes had moued the people to desire that he would rather deliuer Barabbas vnto them.
\v 12 And Pilate answered, and said againe vnto them, What will ye then that I doe with him, whom ye call the King of the Iewes?
\v 13 And they cried againe, Crucifie him.
\v 14 Then Pilate said vnto them, But what euill hath he done? And they cryed the more feruently, Crucifie him.
\v 15 So Pilate willing to content the people, loosed them Barabbas, and deliuered Iesus, when he had scourged him, that he might be crucified.
\v 16 Then the souldiers led him away into the hall, which is the common hall, and called together the whole band,
\v 17 And clad him with purple, and platted a crowne of thornes, and put it about his head,
\v 18 And began to salute him, saying, Haile, King of the Iewes.
\v 19 And they smote him on the head with a reede, and spat vpon him, and bowed the knees, and did him reuerence.
\v 20 And whe they had mocked him, they tooke the purple off him, and put his owne clothes on him, and led him out to crucifie him.
\v 21 And they compelled one that passed by, called Simon of Cyrene (which came out of the countrey, and was father of Alexander and Rufus) to beare his crosse.
\v 22 And they brought him to a place named Golgotha, which is by interpretation, the place of dead mens skulles.
\v 23 And they gaue him to drinke wine mingled with myrrhe: but he receiued it not.
\v 24 And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots for them, what euery man should haue.
\v 25 And it was the third houre, when they crucified him.
\v 26 And ye title of his cause was written aboue, THAT KING OF THE JEWES.
\v 27 They crucified also with him two theeues, the one on ye right hand, and the other on his left.
\v 28 Thus the Scripture was fulfilled, which sayth, And he was counted among the wicked.
\v 29 And they that went by, railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Hey, thou that destroyest the Temple, and buildest it in three dayes,
\v 30 Saue thy selfe, and come downe from the crosse.
\v 31 Likewise also euen the hie Priests mocking, said among themselues with the Scribes, He saued other men, himselfe he cannot saue.
\v 32 Let Christ the King of Israel nowe come downe from the crosse, that we may see, and beleeue. They also that were crucified with him, reuiled him.
\v 33 Nowe when the sixt houre was come, darkenesse arose ouer all the land vntill the ninth houre.
\v 34 And at the ninth houre Iesus cryed with a loude voyce, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lamma-sabachthani? which is by interpretation, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
\v 35 And some of them that stoode by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias.
\v 36 And one ranne, and filled a spondge full of vineger, and put it on a reede, and gaue him to drinke, saying, Let him alone: let vs see if Elias will come, and take him downe.
\v 37 And Iesus cryed with a loude voyce, and gaue vp the ghost.
\v 38 And the vaile of the Temple was rent in twaine, from the toppe to the bottome.
\v 39 Nowe when the Centurion, which stoode ouer against him, sawe that he thus crying gaue vp the ghost, he saide, Truely this man was the Sonne of God.
\v 40 There were also women, which beheld afarre off, among whom was Marie Magdalene, and Marie (the mother of Iames the lesse, and of Ioses) and Salome,
\v 41 Which also when he was in Galile, folowed him, and ministred vnto him, and many other women which came vp with him vnto Hierusalem.
\v 42 And nowe when the night was come (because it was the day of the preparation that is before the Sabbath)
\v 43 Ioseph of Arimathea, an honorable counsellour, which also looked for the kingdome of God, came, and went in boldly vnto Pilate, and asked the body of Iesus.
\v 44 And Pilate marueiled, if he were already dead, and called vnto him the Centurion, and asked of him whether he had bene any while dead.
\v 45 And when he knewe the trueth of the Centurion, he gaue the body to Ioseph:
\v 46 Who bought a linnen cloth, and tooke him downe, and wrapped him in the linnen cloth, and laide him in a tombe that was hewen out of a rocke, and rolled a stone vnto the doore of the sepulchre:
\v 47 And Marie Magdalene, and Marie Ioses mother, behelde where he should be layed.