\c 2
\p
\v 1 Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoeuer thou art that condemnest: for in that that thou condemnest another, thou condemnest thy selfe: for thou that condemnest, doest the same things.
\v 2 But we know that the iudgement of God is according to trueth, against them which comit such things.
\v 3 And thinkest thou this, O thou man, that condemnest them which doe such thinges, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the iudgement of God?
\v 4 Or despisest thou the riches of his bountifulnesse, and patience, and long sufferance, not knowing that the bountifulnesse of God leadeth thee to repentance?
\v 5 But thou, after thine hardnesse, and heart that canot repent, heapest vp as a treasure vnto thy selfe wrath against the day of wrath, and of the declaration of the iust iudgement of God,
\v 6 Who wil reward euery man according to his woorkes:
\v 7 That is, to them which through patience in well doing, seeke glorie, and honour, and immortalitie, euerlasting life:
\v 8 But vnto them that are contentious and disobey the trueth, and obey vnrighteousnesse, shalbe indignation and wrath.
\v 9 Tribulation and anguish shalbe vpon the soule of euery man that doeth euill: of the Iewe first, and also of the Grecian.
\v 10 But to euery man that doeth good, shalbe glory, and honour, and peace: to the Iew first, and also to the Grecian.
\v 11 For there is no respect of persons with God.
\v 12 For as many as haue sinned without the Lawe, shall perish also without the Lawe: and as many as haue sinned in the Lawe, shall be iudged by the Lawe,
\v 13 (For the hearers of the Lawe are not righteous before God: but the doers of the Lawe shalbe iustified.
\v 14 For when the Gentiles which haue not the Lawe, doe by nature, the things conteined in the Lawe, they hauing not the Lawe, are a Lawe vnto themselues,
\v 15 Which shew the effect of the Lawe written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witnes, and their thoughts accusing one another, or excusing,)
\v 16 At the day when God shall iudge the secretes of men by Iesus Christ, according to my Gospel.
\v 17 Beholde, thou art called a Iewe, and restest in the Lawe, and gloriest in God,
\v 18 And knowest his will, and triest the things that dissent from it, in that thou art instructed by the Lawe:
\v 19 And persuadest thy selfe that thou art a guide of the blinde, a light of them which are in darkenesse,
\v 20 An instructer of them which lacke discretion, a teacher of the vnlearned, which hast the forme of knowledge, and of the truth in ye Law.
\v 21 Thou therefore, which teachest another, teachest thou not thy selfe? thou that preachest, A man should not steale, doest thou steale?
\v 22 Thou that saist, A man should not commit adulterie, doest thou commit adulterie? thou that abhorrest idoles, committest thou sacrilege?
\v 23 Thou that gloriest in the Lawe, through breaking the Lawe, dishonourest thou God?
\v 24 For ye Name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you, as it is written.
\v 25 For circucision verely is profitable, if thou do the Lawe: but if thou be a transgressour of the Lawe, thy circumcision is made vncircumcision.
\v 26 Therefore if the vncircumcision keepe the ordinances of the Lawe, shall not his vncircumcision be counted for circumcision?
\v 27 And shall not vncircumcision which is by nature (if it keepe the Lawe) condemne thee which by the letter and circumcision art a transgressour of the Lawe?
\v 28 For hee is not a Iewe, which is one outwarde: neither is that circumcision, which is outward in the flesh:
\v 29 But he is a Iewe which is one within, and the circumcision is of the heart, in the spirite not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God.