\c 16
\p
\v 1 So they brought in the Arke of God, and set it in the middes of the Tabernacle that Dauid had pitched for it, and they offred burnt offrings and peace offrings before God.
\v 2 And when Dauid had made an ende of offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, hee blessed the people in the Name of the Lord.
\v 3 And he dealt to euery one of Israel both man and woman, to euery one a cake of breade, and a piece of flesh, and a bottel of wine.
\v 4 And he appointed certaine of the Leuites to minister before the Arke of the Lord, and to rehearse and to thanke and prayse the Lord God of Israel:
\v 5 Asaph the chiefe, and next to him Zechariah, Ieiel, and Shemiramoth, and Iehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed Edom, euen Ieiel with instruments, violes and harpes, and Asaph to make a sound with cymbales,
\v 6 And Benaiah and Iahaziel Priestes, with trumpets continually before the Arke of the couenant of God.
\v 7 Then at that time Dauid did appoint at the beginning to giue thankes to the Lord by the hand of Asaph and his brethren.
\v 8 Praise the Lord and call vpon his Name: declare his workes among the people.
\v 9 Sing vnto him, sing praise vnto him, and talke of all his wonderfull workes.
\v 10 Reioyce in his holy Name: let the hearts of them that seeke the Lord reioyce.
\v 11 Seeke the Lord and his strength: seeke his face continually.
\v 12 Remember his marueilous workes that he hath done, his wonders, and the iudgements of his mouth,
\v 13 O seede of Israel his seruant, O the children of Iaakob his chosen.
\v 14 He is the Lord our God: his iudgements are throughout all the earth.
\v 15 Remember his couenant for euer, and the worde, which hee commanded to a thousand generations:
\v 16 Which he made with Abraham, and his othe to Izhak:
\v 17 And hath confirmed it to Iaakob for a Law, and to Israel for an euerlasting couenant,
\v 18 Saying, To thee will I giue the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance.
\v 19 When ye were fewe in number, yea, a very fewe, and strangers therein,
\v 20 And walked about from nation to nation, and from one kingdome to another people,
\v 21 He suffered no man to do them wrong, but rebuked Kings for their sakes, saying,
\v 22 Touch not mine anoynted, and doe my Prophets no harme.
\v 23 Sing vnto the Lord all the earth: declare his saluation from day to day.
\v 24 Declare his glory among the nations, and his wonderful workes among all people.
\v 25 For the Lord is great and much to be praised, and hee is to bee feared aboue all gods.
\v 26 For all the gods of the people are idoles, but the Lord made the heauens.
\v 27 Prayse and glory are before him: power and beautie are in his place.
\v 28 Giue vnto the Lord, ye families of the people: giue vnto the Lord glory and power.
\v 29 Giue vnto the Lord ye glory of his Name: bring an offring and come before him, and worship the Lord in the glorious Sanctuarie.
\v 30 Tremble ye before him, al the earth: surely the world shalbe stable and not moue.
\v 31 Let the heauens reioyce, and let the earth be glad, and let them say among the nations, The Lord reigneth.
\v 32 Let the sea roare, and all that therein is: Let the field be ioyfull and all that is in it.
\v 33 Let the trees of the wood then reioyce at the presence of the Lord: for he commeth to iudge the earth.
\v 34 Prayse the Lord, for hee is good, for his mercie endureth for euer.
\v 35 And say ye, Saue vs, O God, our saluation, and gather vs, and deliuer vs from the heathen, that we may prayse thine holy Name, and glorie in thy praise.
\v 36 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel for euer and euer: and let all people say, So be it, and praise the Lord.
\v 37 Then he left there before the Arke of the Lordes couenant Asaph and his brethren to minister continually before the Arke, that which was to be done euery day:
\v 38 And Obed Edom and his brethren, three score and eight: and Obed Edom the sonne of Ieduthun, and Hosah were porters.
\v 39 And Zadok the Priest and his brethren the Priestes were before the Tabernacle of ye Lord, in the hie place that was at Gibeon,
\v 40 To offer burnt offrings vnto the Lord, vpon the burnt offring altar continually, in the morning and in the euening, euen according vnto all that is written in the law of the Lord, which hee commanded Israel.
\v 41 And with them were Heman, and Ieduthun, and the rest that were chosen (which were appointed by names) to praise the Lord, because his mercie endureth for euer.
\v 42 Euen with them were Heman and Ioduthun, to make a sound with the cornets and with the cymbales, with excellent instruments of musicke: and the sonnes of Ieduthun were at the gate.
\v 43 And all the people departed, euerie man to his house: and Dauid returned to blesse his house.