\c 11
\p
\v 1 Be yee followers of mee, euen as I am of Christ.
\v 2 Now brethren, I commend you, that ye remember all my things, and keepe the ordinances, as I deliuered them to you.
\v 3 But I wil that ye know, that Christ is the head of euery man: and the man is the womans head: and God is Christs head.
\v 4 Euery man praying or prophecying hauing any thing on his head, dishonoureth his head.
\v 5 But euery woman that prayeth or prophecieth bare headed, dishonoureth her head: for it is euen one very thing, as though she were shauen.
\v 6 Therefore if the woman be not couered, let her also be shorne: and if it be shame for a woman to be shorne or shauen, let her be couered.
\v 7 For a man ought not to couer his head: for as much as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.
\v 8 For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man.
\v 9 For the man was not created for the womans sake: but the woman for the mans sake.
\v 10 Therefore ought the woman to haue power on her head, because of the Angels.
\v 11 Neuertheles, neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord.
\v 12 For as the woman is of the man, so is the man also by the woman: but all things are of God.
\v 13 Iudge in your selues, Is it comely that a woman pray vnto God vncouered?
\v 14 Doeth not nature it selfe teach you, that if a man haue long heare, it is a shame vnto him?
\v 15 But if a woman haue long heare, it is a prayse vnto her: for her heare is giuen her for a couering.
\v 16 But if any man lust to be contentious, we haue no such custome, neither the Churches of God.
\v 17 Nowe in this that I declare, I prayse you not, that ye come together, not with profite, but with hurt.
\v 18 For first of all, when ye come together in the Church, I heare that there are dissentions among you: and I beleeue it to be true in some part.
\v 19 For there must be heresies euen among you, that they which are approoued among you, might be knowen.
\v 20 When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to eate the Lords Supper.
\v 21 For euery man when they should eate, taketh his owne supper afore, and one is hungry, and another is drunken.
\v 22 Haue ye not houses to eate and to drinke in? despise ye the Church of God, and shame them that haue not? what shall I say to you? shall I prayse you in this? I prayse you not.
\v 23 For I haue receiued of the Lord that which I also haue deliuered vnto you, to wit, That the Lord Iesus in the night when he was betrayed, tooke bread:
\v 24 And when hee had giuen thankes, hee brake it, and sayde, Take, eate: this is my body, which is broken for you: this doe ye in remembrance of me.
\v 25 After the same maner also he tooke the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the Newe Testament in my blood: this doe as oft as ye drinke it, in remembrance of me.
\v 26 For as often as ye shall eate this bread, and drinke this cup, ye shewe the Lords death till hee come.
\v 27 Wherefore, whosoeuer shall eate this bread, and drinke the cup of the Lord vnworthily, shall be guiltie of the body and blood of the Lord.
\v 28 Let euery man therefore examine himselfe, and so let him eate of this bread, and drinke of this cup.
\v 29 For he that eateth and drinketh vnworthily, eateth and drinketh his owne damnation, because he discerneth not the Lords body.
\v 30 For this cause many are weake, and sicke among you, and many sleepe.
\v 31 For if we would iudge our selues, we should not be iudged.
\v 32 But when we are iudged, we are chastened of the Lord, because we should not be condemned with the world.
\v 33 Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eate, tary one for another.
\v 34 And if any man be hungry, let him eate at home, that ye come not together vnto condemnation. Other things will I set in order when I come.