\c 15
\p
\v 1 We which are strong, ought to beare the infirmities of the weake, and not to please our selues.
\v 2 Therefore let euery man please his neighbour in that that is good to edification.
\v 3 For Christ also would not please himselfe, but as it is written, The rebukes of them which rebuke thee, fell on me.
\v 4 For whatsoeuer things are written aforetime, are writte for our learning, that we through patience, and comfort of the Scriptures might haue hope.
\v 5 Now the God of patience and consolation giue you that ye be like minded one towards another, according to Christ Iesus,
\v 6 That ye with one minde, and with one mouth may prayse God, euen the Father of our Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 7 Wherefore receiue ye one another, as Christ also receiued vs to the glory of God.
\v 8 Nowe I say, that Iesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision, for the trueth of God, to confirme the promises made vnto the fathers.
\v 9 And let the Gentiles prayse God, for his mercie, as it is written, For this cause I wil confesse thee among the Gentiles, and sing vnto thy Name.
\v 10 And againe he saith, Reioyce, ye Gentiles with his people.
\v 11 And againe, Prayse the Lord, all ye Gentiles, and laude ye him, all people together.
\v 12 And againe Esaias sayth, There shall be a roote of Iesse, and hee that shall rise to reigne ouer the Gentiles, in him shall the Gentiles trust.
\v 13 Nowe the God of hope fill you with all ioye, and peace in beleeuing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the holy Ghost.
\v 14 And I my selfe also am perswaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodnes, and filled with all knowledge, and are able to admonish one another.
\v 15 Neuerthelesse, brethren, I haue somewhat boldly after a sort written vnto you, as one that putteth you in remembrance, through the grace that is giuen me of God,
\v 16 That I should be the minister of Iesus Christ toward the Gentiles, ministring the Gospel of God, that the offering vp of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the holy Ghost.
\v 17 I haue therefore whereof I may reioyce in Christ Iesus in those things which pertaine to God.
\v 18 For I dare not speake of any thing, which Christ hath not wrought by me, to make the Gentiles obedient in worde and deede,
\v 19 With the power of signes and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God: so that from Hierusalem, and round about vnto Illyricum, I haue caused to abound the Gospel of Christ.
\v 20 Yea, so I enforced my selfe to preach the Gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should haue built on another mans foundation.
\v 21 But as it is written, To whome hee was not spoken of, they shall see him, and they that heard not, shall vnderstand him.
\v 22 Therefore also I haue bene oft let to come vnto you:
\v 23 But nowe seeing I haue no more place in these quarters, and also haue bene desirous many yeeres agone to come vnto you,
\v 24 When I shall take my iourney into Spaine, I will come to you: for I trust to see you in my iourney, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, after that I haue bene somewhat filled with your company.
\v 25 But now go I to Hierusalem, to minister vnto the Saints.
\v 26 For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia, to make a certaine distribution vnto the poore Saints which are at Hierusalem.
\v 27 For it hath pleased them, and their detters are they: for if the Gentiles be made partakers of their spirituall things, their duetie is also to minister vnto them in carnall things.
\v 28 When I haue therefore performed this, and haue sealed them this fruite, I will passe by you into Spaine.
\v 29 And I knowe when I come, that I shall come to you with abundance of the blessing of the Gospel of Christ.
\v 30 Also brethren, I beseeche you for our Lord Iesus Christes sake, and for the loue of the spirit, that ye would striue with me by prayers to God for me,
\v 31 That I may be deliuered from them which are disobedient in Iudea, and that my seruice which I haue to doe at Hierusalem, may be accepted of the Saintes,
\v 32 That I may come vnto you with ioy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed.
\v 33 Thus the God of peace be with you all. Amen.