\c 9
\p
\v 1 Then called hee his twelue disciples together, and gaue them power and authoritie ouer all deuils, and to heale diseases.
\v 2 And hee sent them foorth to preach the kingdome of God, and to cure the sicke.
\v 3 And he sayd to them, Take nothing to your iourney, neither staues, nor scrip, neither bread, nor siluer, neither haue two coates apiece.
\v 4 And whatsoeuer house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart.
\v 5 And howe many so euer will not receiue you, when ye goe out of that citie, shake off the very dust from your feete for a testimonie against them.
\v 6 And they went out, and went through euery towne preaching the Gospel, and healing euery where.
\v 7 Nowe Herod the Tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he douted, because that it was sayd of some, that Iohn was risen againe from the dead:
\v 8 And of some, that Elias had appeared: and of some, that one of the olde Prophets was risen againe.
\v 9 Then Herod sayd, Iohn haue I beheaded: who then is this of whome I heare such things? and he desired to see him.
\v 10 And when the Apostles returned, they tolde him what great things they had done. Then he tooke them to him, and went aside into a solitarie place, neere to the citie called Bethsaida.
\v 11 But when the people knewe it, they followed him: and he receiued them, and spake vnto them of the kingdome of God, and healed them that had neede to be healed.
\v 12 And when the day began to weare away, the twelue came, and sayd vnto him, Sende the people away, that they may goe into the townes and villages round about, and lodge, and get meate: for we are here in a desart place.
\v 13 But he sayd vnto them, Giue ye them to eate. And they sayd, We haue no more but fiue loaues and two fishes, except we should go and buy meate for all this people.
\v 14 For they were about fiue thousand men. Then he sayde to his disciples, Cause them to sit downe by fifties in a company.
\v 15 And they did so, and caused all to sit downe.
\v 16 Then he tooke the fiue loaues, and the two fishes, and looked vp to heauen, and blessed them, and brake, and gaue to the disciples, to set before the people.
\v 17 So they did all eate, and were satisfied: and there was taken vp of that remained to them, twelue baskets full of broken meate.
\v 18 And it came to passe, as hee was alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am?
\v 19 They answered, and sayd, Iohn Baptist: and others say, Elias: and some say, that one of the olde Prophets is risen againe.
\v 20 And he sayd vnto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answered, and sayd, That Christ of God.
\v 21 And he warned and commanded them, that they should tell that to no man,
\v 22 Saying, The Sonne of man must suffer many things and be reproued of the Elders, and of the hie Priests and Scribes, and be slaine, and the third day rise againe.
\v 23 And he sayd to them all, If any man will come after me, let him denie himselfe, and take vp his crosse dayly, and follow me.
\v 24 For whosoeuer will saue his life, shall lose it: and whosoeuer shall lose his life for my sake, the same shall saue it.
\v 25 For what auantageth it a man, if he win the whole worlde, and destroy himselfe, or lose himselfe?
\v 26 For whosoeuer shall be ashamed of me, and of my wordes, of him shall the Sonne of man be ashamed, when hee shall come in his glorie, and in the glorie of the Father, and of the holy Angels.
\v 27 And I tell you of a suretie, there be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they haue seene the kingdome of God.
\v 28 And it came to passe about an eyght dayes after those wordes, that he tooke Peter and Iohn, and Iames, and went vp into a mountaine to pray.
\v 29 And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was changed, and his garment was white and glistered.
\v 30 And beholde, two men talked with him, which were Moses and Elias:
\v 31 Which appeared in glory, and tolde of his departing, which he shoulde accomplish at Hierusalem.
\v 32 But Peter and they that were with him, were heauie with sleepe, and when they awoke, they saw his glorie, and the two men standing with him.
\v 33 And it came to passe, as they departed from him, Peter said vnto Iesus, Master, it is good for vs to be here: let vs therefore make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias, and wist not what he said.
\v 34 Whiles he thus spake, there came a cloude and ouershadowed them, and they feared when they were entring into the cloude.
\v 35 And there came a voyce out of the cloud, saying, This is that my beloued Sonne, heare him.
\v 36 And when the voyce was past, Iesus was found alone: and they kept it close, and tolde no man in those dayes any of those things which they had seene.
\v 37 And it came to passe on the next day, as they came downe from the mountaine, much people met him.
\v 38 And beholde, a man of the companie cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, beholde my sonne: for he is all that I haue.
\v 39 And loe, a spirit taketh him, and suddenly he crieth, and he teareth him, that he fometh, and hardly departeth from him, when he hath bruised him.
\v 40 Nowe I haue besought thy disciples to cast him out, but they could not.
\v 41 Then Iesus answered, and said, O generation faithlesse, and crooked, howe long now shall I be with you, and suffer you? bring thy sonne hither.
\v 42 And whiles he was yet comming, the deuill rent him, and tare him: and Iesus rebuked the vncleane spirite, and healed the childe, and deliuered him to his father.
\v 43 And they were all amased at the mightie power of God: and while they all wondered at al things, which Iesus did, he said vnto his disciples,
\v 44 Marke these wordes diligently: for it shall come to passe, that the Sonne of man shalbe deliuered into the handes of men.
\v 45 But they vnderstood not that word: for it was hid from them, so that they could not perceiue it: and they feared to aske him of that worde.
\v 46 Then there arose a disputation among them, which of them should be the greatest.
\v 47 When Iesus sawe the thoughtes of their heartes, he tooke a litle childe, and set him by him,
\v 48 And said vnto them, Whosoeuer receiueth this litle childe in my Name, receiueth me: and whosoeuer shall receiue me, receiueth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, he shall be great.
\v 49 And Iohn answered and saide, Master, we sawe one casting out deuils in thy Name, and we forbad him, because he followeth thee not with vs.
\v 50 Then Iesus saide vnto him, Forbid ye him not: for he that is not against vs, is with vs.
\v 51 And it came to passe, when the dayes were accomplished, that he should be receiued vp, he setled himselfe fully to goe to Hierusalem,
\v 52 And sent messengers before him: and they went and entred into a towne of the Samaritans, to prepare him lodging.
\v 53 But they woulde not receiue him, because his behauiour was, as though he would go to Hierusalem.
\v 54 And when his disciples, Iames and Iohn sawe it, they saide, Lord, wilt thou that we commaund, that fire come downe from heauen, and consume them, euen as Elias did?
\v 55 But Iesus turned about, and rebuked them, and said, Ye knowe not of what spirit ye are.
\v 56 For the Sonne of man is not come to destroy mens liues, but to saue them. Then they went to another towne.
\v 57 And it came to passe that as they went in the way, a certaine man said vnto him, I will follow thee, Lord, whithersoeuer thou goest.
\v 58 And Iesus saide vnto him, The foxes haue holes, and the birdes of the heauen nestes, but the Sonne of man hath not whereon to lay his head.
\v 59 But he said vnto another, Followe me. And the same said, Lord, suffer me first to goe and burie my father.
\v 60 And Iesus said vnto him, Let the dead burie their dead: but go thou, and preache the kingdome of God.
\v 61 Then another saide, I will follow thee, Lord: but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at mine house.
\v 62 And Iesus saide vnto him, No man that putteth his hand to the plough, and looketh backe, is apt to the kingdome of God.