\c 2
\p
\v 1 In the foure and twentieth day of the sixt moneth, in the second yeere of King Darius,
\v 2 In the seuenth moneth, in the one and twentieth day of the moneth, came the worde of the Lord by the ministerie of the Prophet Haggai, saying,
\v 3 Speake nowe to Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel prince of Iudah, and to Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest, and to the residue of the people, saying,
\v 4 Who is left among you, that sawe this House in her first glory, and howe doe you see it nowe? is it not in your eyes, in comparison of it as nothing?
\v 5 Yet nowe be of good courage, O Zerubbabel, sayth the Lord, and be of good comfort, O Iehoshua, sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest: and be strong, all ye people of the land, sayth the Lord, and doe it: for I am with you, sayth the Lord of hostes,
\v 6 According to the worde that I couenanted with you, when ye came out of Egypt: so my Spirite shall remaine among you, feare ye not.
\v 7 For thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Yet a litle while, and I will shake the heauens and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land:
\v 8 And I will moue all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come, and I will fill this House with glory, sayth the Lord of hostes.
\v 9 The siluer is mine, and the golde is mine, sayth the Lord of hostes.
\v 10 The glory of this last House shall be greater then the first, sayth the Lord of hostes: and in this place will I giue peace, sayth the Lord of hostes.
\v 11 In the foure and twentieth day of the ninth moneth, in the second yeere of Darius, came the worde of the Lord vnto the Prophet Haggai, saying,
\v 12 Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Aske nowe the Priests concerning the Law, and say,
\v 13 If one beare holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt doe touch the bread, or the potage, or the wine, or oyle, or any meate, shall it be holy? And the Priests answered and said, No.
\v 14 Then sayde Haggai, If a polluted person touch any of these, shall it be vncleane? And the Priests answered, and sayd, It shalbe vncleane.
\v 15 Then answered Haggai, and sayd, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, saith the Lord: and so are all the workes of their hands, and that which they offer here, is vncleane.
\v 16 And nowe, I pray you, consider in your mindes: from this day, and afore, euen afore a stone was layde vpon a stone in the Temple of the Lord:
\v 17 Before these things were, when one came to an heape of twentie measures, there were but ten: when one came to the wine presse for to drawe out fiftie vessels out of the presse, there were but twentie.
\v 18 I smote you with blasting, and with mildewe, and with haile, in all the labours of your hands: yet you turned not to me, saith the Lord.
\v 19 Consider, I pray you, in your mindes, from this day, and afore from the foure and twentieth day of the ninth moneth, euen from the day that the foundation of the Lords Temple was laide: consider it in your mindes.
\v 20 Is the seede yet in the barne? as yet the vine, and the figtree, and the pomegranate, and the oliue tree hath not brought forth: from this day will I blesse you.
\v 21 And againe the worde of the Lord came vnto Haggai in the foure and twentieth day of the moneth, saying,
\v 22 Speake to Zerubbabel the prince of Iudah, and say, I wil shake the heauens and the earth,
\v 23 And I will ouerthrowe the throne of kingdomes, and I wil destroy the strength of the kingdomes of the heathen, and I wil ouerthrowe the charets, and those that ride in them, and the horse and the riders shall come downe, euery one by the sword of his brother.
\v 24 In that day, saith the Lord of hostes, will I take thee, O Zerubbabel my seruant, the sonne of Shealtiel, sayth the Lord, and wil make thee as a signet: for I haue chosen thee, sayth the Lord of hostes.