\c 13
\p
\v 1 There were also in the Church that was at Antiochia, certaine Prophets and teachers, as Barnabas, and Simeon called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manahen (which had bin brought vp with Herod the Tetrarche) and Saul.
\v 2 Nowe as they ministred to the Lord, and fasted, the holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul, for the worke whereunto I haue called them.
\v 3 Then fasted they and prayed, and layde their hands on them, and let them goe.
\v 4 And they, after they were sent foorth of the holy Ghost, came downe vnto Seleucia, and from thence they sayled to Cyprus.
\v 5 And when they were at Salamis, they preached the worde of God in the Synagogues of the Iewes: and they had also Iohn to their minister.
\v 6 So when they had gone throughout the yle vnto Paphus, they found a certaine sorcerer, a false prophet, being a Iewe, named Bariesus,
\v 7 Which was with the Deputie Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. He called vnto him Barnabas and Saul, and desired to heare the woorde of God.
\v 8 But Elymas, ye sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstoode them, and sought to turne away the Deputie from the faith.
\v 9 Then Saul (which also is called Paul) being full of the holy Ghost, set his eyes on him,
\v 10 And sayde, O full of all subtiltie and all mischiefe, the childe of the deuill, and enemie of all righteousnesse, wilt thou not cease to peruert the straight waies of the Lord?
\v 11 Nowe therefore behold, the hand of the Lord is vpon thee, and thou shalt be blinde, and not see the sunne for a season. And immediately there fel on him a mist and a darknes; and he went about, seeking some to leade him by the hand.
\v 12 Then the Deputie when he sawe what was done, beleeued, and was astonied at the doctrine of the Lord.
\v 13 Nowe when Paul and they that were with him were departed by shippe from Paphus, they came to Perga a citie of Pamphylia: then Iohn departed from them, and returned to Hierusalem.
\v 14 But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antiochia a citie of Pisidia, and went into the Synagogue on ye Sabbath day, and sate downe.
\v 15 And after the lecture of the Law and Prophets, the rulers of ye Synagogue sent vnto them, saying, Ye men and brethren, if ye haue any word of exhortation for the people, say on.
\v 16 Then Paul stoode vp and beckened with the hand, and sayde, Men of Israel, and yee that feare God, hearken.
\v 17 The God of this people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they dwelt in the land of Egypt, and with an high arme brought them out thereof.
\v 18 And about the time of fourtie yeeres, suffered he their maners in the wildernesse.
\v 19 And he destroied seuen nations in the land of Chanaan, and deuided their lad to them by lot.
\v 20 Then afterward he gaue vnto them Iudges about foure hundreth and fiftie yeeres, vnto the time of Samuel the Prophet.
\v 21 So after that, they desired a King, and God gaue vnto them Saul, the sonne of Cis, a man of ye tribe of Beniamin, by the space of fourty yeres.
\v 22 And after he had taken him away, he raised vp Dauid to be their King, of whom he witnessed, saying, I haue found Dauid the sonne of Iesse, a man after mine owne heart, which will doe all things that I will.
\v 23 Of this mans seede hath God according to his promise raised vp to Israel, ye Sauiour Iesus:
\v 24 When Iohn had first preached before his coming the baptisme of repentance to all the people of Israel.
\v 25 And when Iohn had fulfilled his course, he saide, Whom ye thinke that I am, I am not he: but beholde, there commeth one after me, whose shooe of his feete I am not worthy to loose.
\v 26 Yee men and brethren, children of the generation of Abraham, and whosoeuer among you feareth God, to you is the woorde of this saluation sent.
\v 27 For the inhabitants of Hierusalem, and their rulers, because they knewe him not, nor yet the woordes of the Prophets, which are read euery Sabbath day, they haue fulfilled them in condemning him.
\v 28 And though they found no cause of death in him, yet desired they Pilate to kill him.
\v 29 And when they had fulfilled all things that were written of him, they tooke him downe from the tree, and put him in a sepulchre.
\v 30 But God raised him vp from the dead.
\v 31 And hee was seene many dayes of them, which came vp with him from Galile to Hierusalem, which are his witnesses vnto the people.
\v 32 And we declare vnto you, that touching the promise made vnto the fathers,
\v 33 God hath fulfilled it vnto vs their children, in that he raised vp Iesus, euen as it is written in the seconde Psalme, Thou art my Sonne: this day haue I begotten thee.
\v 34 Nowe as concerning that he raised him vp from the dead, no more to returne to corruption, he hath said thus, I wil giue you the holy things of Dauid, which are faithfull.
\v 35 Wherefore hee sayeth also in another place, Thou wilt not suffer thine Holy one to see corruption.
\v 36 Howbeit, Dauid after hee had serued his time by the counsell of God, hee slept, and was laid with his fathers, and sawe corruption.
\v 37 But he whom God raised vp, sawe no corruption.
\v 38 Be it knowen vnto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached vnto you the forgiuenesse of sinnes.
\v 39 And from al things, from which ye could not be iustified by the Law of Moses, by him euery one that beleeueth, is iustified.
\v 40 Beware therefore lest that come vpon you, which is spoken of in the Prophets,
\v 41 Behold, ye despisers, and wonder, and vanish away: for I woorke a woorke in your daies, a woorke which yee shall not beleeue, if a man would declare it you.
\v 42 And when they were come out of the Synagogue of the Iewes, the Gentiles besought, that they woulde preach these woordes to them the next Sabbath day.
\v 43 Nowe when the congregation was dissolued, many of the Iewes and Proselytes that feared God, followed Paul and Barnabas, which spake to them, and exhorted them to continue in the grace of God.
\v 44 And ye next Sabbath day came almost the whole citie together, to heare the worde of God.
\v 45 But when the Iewes saw the people, they were full of enuie, and spake against those things, which were spoken of Paul, contrarying them, and railing on them.
\v 46 Then Paul and Barnabas spake boldly, and sayde, It was necessarie that the woorde of God shoulde first haue beene spoken vnto you: but seeing yee put it from you, and iudge your selues vnworthie of euerlasting life, loe, we turne to the Gentiles.
\v 47 For so hath the Lord commanded vs, saying, I haue made thee a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be the saluation vnto the end of the world.
\v 48 And when the Gentiles heard it, they were glad, and glorified the woorde of the Lord: and as many as were ordeined vnto eternall life, beleeued.
\v 49 Thus the worde of the Lord was published throughout the whole countrey.
\v 50 But the Iewes stirred certaine deuoute and honourable women, and the chiefe men of the citie, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them out of their coastes.
\v 51 But they shooke off the dust of their feete against them, and came vnto Iconium.
\v 52 And the disciples were filled with ioy, and with the holy Ghost.