\c 11
\p
\v 1 And when they came neere to Hierusalem, to Bethphage and Bethania vnto the mount of Oliues, he sent forth two of his disciples,
\v 2 And sayd vnto them, Goe your wayes into that towne that is ouer against you, and assoone as ye shall enter into it, ye shall finde a colte tied, whereon neuer man sate: loose him, and bring him.
\v 3 And if any man say vnto you, Why doe ye this? Say that the Lord hath neede of him, and straightway he will send him hither.
\v 4 And they went their way, and found a colt tyed by the doore without, in a place where two wayes met, and they loosed him.
\v 5 Then certaine of them, that stoode there, sayd vnto them, What doe ye loosing the colt?
\v 6 And they sayde vnto them, as Iesus had commanded them: So they let them goe.
\v 7 And they brought the colte to Iesus, and cast their garments on him, and he sate vpon him.
\v 8 And many spred their garments in the way: other cut downe branches off the trees, and strawed them in the way.
\v 9 And they that went before, and they that folowed, cryed, saying, Hosanna: blessed be hee that commeth in the Name of the Lord.
\v 10 Blessed be the kingdome that commeth in the Name of the Lord of our father Dauid: Hosanna, O thou which art in the highest heauens.
\v 11 So Iesus entred into Hierusalem, and into the Temple: and when he had looked about on all things, and now it was euening, he went forth vnto Bethania with the twelue.
\v 12 And on the morowe when they were come out from Bethania, he was hungry.
\v 13 And seeing a fig tree afarre off, that had leaues, he went to see if he might finde any thing thereon: but when he came vnto it, hee found nothing but leaues: for the time of figges was not yet.
\v 14 Then Iesus answered, and sayd to it, Neuer man eate fruite of thee hereafter while the world standeth: and his disciples heard it.
\v 15 And they came to Hierusalem, and Iesus went into the Temple, and began to cast out them that solde and bought in the Temple, and ouerthrewe the tables of the money changers, and the seates of them that solde doues.
\v 16 Neither would hee suffer that any man should cary a vessell through the Temple.
\v 17 And he taught, saying vnto them, Is it not written, Mine house shalbe called the house of prayer vnto all nations? but you haue made it a denne of theeues.
\v 18 And the Scribes and hie Priestes heard it, and sought howe to destroy him: for they feared him, because the whole multitude was astonied at his doctrine.
\v 19 But when euen was come, Iesus went out of the citie.
\v 20 And in the morning as they iourneyed together, they saw the figge tree dried vp from the rootes.
\v 21 Then Peter remembred, and said vnto him, Master, beholde, the figge tree which thou cursedst, is withered.
\v 22 And Iesus answered, and said vnto them, Haue the faith of God.
\v 23 For verely I say vnto you, that whosoeuer shall say vnto this mountaine, Be thou taken away, and cast into the sea, and shall not wauer in his heart, but shall beleeue that those things which he saieth, shall come to passe, whatsoeuer he saieth, shall be done to him.
\v 24 Therefore I say vnto you, Whatsoeuer ye desire when ye pray, beleeue that ye shall haue it, and it shalbe done vnto you.
\v 25 But when ye shall stand, and pray, forgiue, if ye haue any thing against any man, that your Father also which is in heauen, may forgiue you your trespasses.
\v 26 For if you will not forgiue, your Father which is in heauen, will not pardon you your trespasses.
\v 27 Then they came againe to Hierusalem: and as he walked in the Temple, there came to him ye hie Priestes, and the Scribes, and the Elders,
\v 28 And said vnto him, By what authoritie doest thou these things? and who gaue thee this authoritie, that thou shouldest doe these things?
\v 29 Then Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, I will also aske of you a certaine thing, and answere ye me, and I will tell you by what authoritie I do these things.
\v 30 The baptisme of Iohn, was it from heauen, or of men? answere me.
\v 31 And they thought with themselues, saying, If we shall say, From heauen, he will say, Why then did ye not beleeue him?
\v 32 But if we say, Of men, we feare the people: for all men counted Iohn, that he was a Prophet in deede.
\v 33 Then they answered, and saide vnto Iesus, We cannot tell. And Iesus answered, and said vnto them, Neither will I tell you by what authoritie I doe these things.