\c 20
\p
\v 1 Nowe after the tumult was appeased, Paul called the disciples vnto him, and embraced them, and departed to goe into Macedonia.
\v 2 And when hee had gone through those parts, and had exhorted them with many words, he came into Grecia.
\v 3 And hauing taried there three moneths, because the Iewes layde waite for him, as hee was about to saile into Syria, hee purposed to returne through Macedonia.
\v 4 And there accompanied him into Asia, Sopater of Berea, and of them of Thessalonica, Aristarchus, and Secundus, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timotheus, and of them of Asia, Tychicus, and Trophimus.
\v 5 These went before, and taried vs at Troas.
\v 6 And we sailed forth from Philippi, after the dayes of vnleauened bread, and came vnto them to Troas in fiue dayes, where we abode seuen dayes.
\v 7 And the first day of the weeke, the disciples being come together to breake bread, Paul preached vnto them, ready to depart on the morrow, and continued the preaching vnto midnight.
\v 8 And there were many lightes in an vpper chamber, where they were gathered together.
\v 9 And there sate in a windowe a certaine yong man, named Eutychus, fallen into a dead sleepe: and as Paul was long preaching, hee ouercome with sleepe, fell downe from the thirde loft, and was taken vp dead.
\v 10 But Paul went downe, and layde himselfe vpon him, and embraced him, saying, Trouble not your selues: for his life is in him.
\v 11 Then when Paul was come vp againe, and had broken bread, and eaten, hauing spoken a long while till the dawning of the day, hee so departed.
\v 12 And they brought the boye aliue, and they were not a litle comforted.
\v 13 Then we went before to shippe, and sailed vnto the citie Assos, that wee might receiue Paul there: for so had hee appointed, and would himselfe goe afoote.
\v 14 Now when he was come vnto vs to Assos, and we had receiued him, we came to Mitylenes.
\v 15 And wee sailed thence, and came the next day ouer against Chios, and the next day we arriued at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium: the next day we came to Miletum.
\v 16 For Paul had determined to saile by Ephesus, because hee woulde not spend the time in Asia: for he hasted to be, if hee could possible, at Hierusalem, at the day of Pentecost.
\v 17 Wherefore from Miletum, hee sent to Ephesus, and called the Elders of the Church.
\v 18 Who when they were come to him, hee said vnto them, Ye know from the first day that I came into Asia, after what maner I haue bene with you at all seasons,
\v 19 Seruing the Lord with all modestie, and with many teares, and tentations, which came vnto me by the layings awaite of the Iewes,
\v 20 And how I kept backe nothing that was profitable, but haue shewed you, and taught you openly and throughout euery house,
\v 21 Witnessing both to the Iewes, and to the Grecians the repentance towarde God, and faith toward our Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 22 And nowe beholde, I goe bound in the Spirit vnto Hierusalem, and know not what things shall come vnto me there,
\v 23 Saue that ye holy Ghost witnesseth in euery citie, saying, that bondes and afflictions abide me.
\v 24 But I passe not at all, neither is my life deare vnto my selfe, so that I may fulfill my course with ioye, and the ministration which I haue receiued of the Lord Iesus, to testifie the Gospell of the grace of God.
\v 25 And now behold, I know that henceforth ye all, through whome I haue gone preaching the kingdome of God, shall see my face no more.
\v 26 Wherefore I take you to recorde this day, that I am pure from the blood of all men.
\v 27 For I haue kept nothing backe, but haue shewed you all the counsell of God.
\v 28 Take heede therefore vnto your selues, and to all the flocke, whereof the holy Ghost hath made you Ouerseers, to feede the Church of God, which hee hath purchased with that his owne blood.
\v 29 For I knowe this, that after my departing shall grieuous wolues enter in among you, not sparing the flocke.
\v 30 Moreouer of your owne selues shall men arise speaking peruerse thinges, to drawe disciples after them.
\v 31 Therefore watche, and remember, that by the space of three yeres I ceased not to warne euery one, both night and day with teares.
\v 32 And nowe brethren, I commend you to God, and to the worde of his grace, which is able to build further, and to giue you an inheritance, among all them, which are sanctified.
\v 33 I haue coueted no mans siluer, nor gold, nor apparell.
\v 34 Yea, ye knowe, that these handes haue ministred vnto my necessities, and to them that were with me.
\v 35 I haue shewed you all things, howe that so labouring, ye ought to support the weake, and to remember the wordes of the Lord Iesus, howe that hee saide, It is a blessed thing to giue, rather then to receiue.
\v 36 And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled downe, and prayed with them all.
\v 37 Then they wept all abundantly, and fell on Pauls necke, and kissed him,
\v 38 Being chiefly sorie for the words which he spake, That they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him vnto the shippe.