\c 3
\p
\v 1 A prayer of Habakkuk the Prophet for the ignorances.
\v 2 O Lord, I haue heard thy voyce, and was afraide: O Lord, reuiue thy worke in the mids of the people, in the mids of the yeeres make it knowen: in wrath remember mercy.
\v 3 God commeth from Teman, and the holy one from mount Paran, Selah. His glory couereth the heauens, and the earth is full of his prayse,
\v 4 And his brightnes was as the light: he had hornes comming out of his hands, and there was the hiding of his power.
\v 5 Before him went the pestilence, and burning coales went forth before his feete.
\v 6 He stoode and measured the earth: he behelde and dissolued the nations and the euerlasting mountaines were broken, and the ancient hilles did bowe: his wayes are euerlasting.
\v 7 For his iniquitie I sawe the tentes of Cushan, and the curtaines of the land of Midian did tremble.
\v 8 Was the Lord angry against the riuers? or was thine anger against the floods? or was thy wrath against the sea, that thou diddest ride vpon thine horses? thy charets brought saluation.
\v 9 Thy bowe was manifestly reueiled, and the othes of the tribes were a sure worde, Selah. thou diddest cleaue the earth with riuers.
\v 10 The mountaines sawe thee, and they trembled: the streame of the water passed by: the deepe made a noyse, and lift vp his hand on hie.
\v 11 The sunne and moone stood still in their habitation: at the light of thine arrowes they went, and at the bright shining of thy speares.
\v 12 Thou trodest downe the land in anger, and didest thresh the heathen in displeasure.
\v 13 Thou wentest foorth for the saluation of thy people, euen for saluation with thine Anointed: thou hast wounded the head of the house of the wicked, and discoueredst the foundations vnto the necke, Selah.
\v 14 Thou didest strike thorowe with his owne staues the heades of his villages: they came out as a whirle winde to scatter me: their reioycing was as to deuoure the poore secretly.
\v 15 Thou didest walke in the sea with thine horses vpon the heape of great waters.
\v 16 When I heard, my bellie trembled: my lippes shooke at the voyce: rottennesse entred into my bones, and I trembled in my selfe, that I might rest in the day of trouble: for whe he commeth vp vnto the people, he shall destroy them.
\v 17 For the figtree shall not flourish, neither shall fruite be in the vines: the labour of the oliue shall faile, and the fieldes shall yeelde no meate: the sheepe shalbe cut off from the folde, and there shalbe no bullocke in the stalles.
\v 18 But I will reioyce in the Lord: I will ioy in the God of my saluation.
\v 19 The Lord God is my strength: hee will make my feete like hindes feete, and he will make me to walke vpon mine hie places. To the chiefe singer on Neginothai.