\c 50
\p
\v 1 Then Ioseph fell vpon his fathers face and wept vpon him, and kissed him.
\v 2 And Ioseph commanded his seruantes the physicions, to enbaume his father, and the physicions enbaumed Israel.
\v 3 So fourtie dayes were accomplished (for so long did the dayes of them that were enbaumed last) and the Egyptians bewayled him seuentie dayes.
\v 4 And when the dayes of his mourning were past, Ioseph spake to the house of Pharaoh, saying, If I haue nowe found fauour in your eyes, speake, I pray you, in the eares of Pharaoh, and say,
\v 5 My father made me sweare, saying, Loe, I die, bury me in my graue, which I haue made me in the land of Canaan: now therefore let me go, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I wil come againe.
\v 6 Then Pharaoh said, Goe vp and bury thy father, as he made thee to sweare.
\v 7 So Ioseph went vp to bury his father, and with him went all the seruants of Pharaoh, both the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt.
\v 8 Likewise all the house of Ioseph, and his brethren, and his fathers house: onely their children, and their sheepe, and their cattell left they in the land of Goshen.
\v 9 And there went vp with him both charets and horsemen: and they were an exceeding great company.
\v 10 And they came to Goren Atad, which is beyond Iorden, and there they made a great and exceeding sore lamentation: and he mourned for his father seuen dayes.
\v 11 And when the Canaanites the inhabitants of the lande sawe the mourning in Goren Atad, they sayde, This is a great mourning vnto the Egyptians: wherefore the name thereof was called Abel Mizraim, which is beyond Iorden.
\v 12 So his sonnes did vnto him, according as he had commanded them:
\v 13 For his sonnes caried him into the lande of Canaan, and buried him in the caue of the fielde of Machpelah, which caue Abraham bought with the fielde, to be a place to bury in, of Ephron the Hittite besides Mamre.
\v 14 Then Ioseph returned into Egypt, he and his brethren, and al that went vp with him to bury his father, after that he had buried his father.
\v 15 And when Iosephs brethren saw that their father was dead, they sayde, It may be that Ioseph will hate vs, and will pay vs againe all the euill, which we did vnto him.
\v 16 Therefore they sent vnto Ioseph, saying, Thy father commanded before his death, saying,
\v 17 Thus shall ye say vnto Ioseph, Forgiue now, I pray thee, the trespasse of thy brethren, and their sinne: for they rewarded thee euil. And nowe, we pray thee, forgiue the trespasse of the seruants of thy fathers God. And Ioseph wept, when they spake vnto him.
\v 18 Also his brethren came vnto him, and fell downe before his face, and sayde, Beholde, we be thy seruants.
\v 19 To whome Ioseph sayde, Feare not: for am not I vnder God?
\v 20 When ye thought euill against mee, God disposed it to good, that he might bring to passe, as it is this day, and saue much people aliue.
\v 21 Feare not nowe therefore, I will nourish you, and your children: and hee comforted them, and spake kindly vnto them.
\v 22 So Ioseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his fathers house: and Ioseph liued an hundreth and tenne yeere.
\v 23 And Ioseph saw Ephraims children, euen vnto the third generation: also the sonnes of Machir the sonne of Manasseh were brought vp on Iosephs knees.
\v 24 And Ioseph sayd vnto his brethren, I am ready to dye, and God will surely visite you, and bring you out of this land, vnto ye land which hee sware vnto Abraham, vnto Izhak, and vnto Iaakob.
\v 25 And Ioseph tooke an othe of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visite you, and ye shall cary my bones hence.
\v 26 So Ioseph died, when he was an hundreth and ten yere olde: and they enbaumed him and put him in a chest in Egypt.