\c 13
\p
\v 1 Let brotherly loue continue.
\v 2 Be not forgetfull to intertaine strangers: for thereby some haue receiued Angels into their houses vnwares.
\v 3 Remember them that are in bondes, as though ye were bounde with them: and them that are in affliction, as if ye were also afflicted in the body.
\v 4 Mariage is honorable among all, and the bed vndefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will iudge.
\v 5 Let your conuersation be without couetousnesse, and be content with those things that ye haue, for he hath said,
\v 6 I will not faile thee, neither forsake thee:
\v 7 So that we may boldly say, The Lord is mine helper, neither will I feare what man can doe vnto me.
\v 8 Remember them which haue the ouersight of you, which haue declared vnto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering what hath bene the ende of their conuersation. Iesus Christ yesterday, and to day, the same also is for euer.
\v 9 Be not caried about with diuers and strange doctrines: for it is a good thing that the heart be stablished with grace, and not with meates, which haue not profited them that haue bene occupied therein.
\v 10 We haue an altar, whereof they haue no authoritie to eate, which serue in the tabernacle.
\v 11 For the bodies of those beastes whose blood is brought into the Holy place by the high Priest for sinne, are burnt without the campe.
\v 12 Therefore euen Iesus, that he might sanctifie the people with his owne blood, suffered without the gate.
\v 13 Let vs goe foorth to him therefore out of the campe, bearing his reproch.
\v 14 For here haue we no continuing citie: but we seeke one to come.
\v 15 Let vs therefore by him offer the sacrifice of prayse alwaies to God, that is, the fruite of the lippes, which confesse his Name.
\v 16 To doe good, and to distribute forget not: for with such sacrifices God is pleased.
\v 17 Obey them that haue the ouersight of you, and submit your selues: for they watche for your soules, as they that must giue accountes, that they may doe it with ioy, and not with griefe: for that is vnprofitable for you.
\v 18 Pray for vs: for we are assured that we haue a good conscience in all things, desiring to liue honestly.
\v 19 And I desire you somewhat the more earnestly, that yee so doe, that I may be restored to you more quickly.
\v 20 The God of peace that brought againe from the dead our Lord Iesus, the great shepheard of the sheepe, through the blood of the euerlasting Couenant,
\v 21 Make you perfect in all good workes, to doe his will, working in you that which is pleasant in his sight through Iesus Christ, to whom be praise for euer and euer, Amen.
\v 22 I beseeche you also, brethren, suffer the wordes of exhortation: for I haue written vnto you in fewe wordes.
\v 23 Knowe that our brother Timotheus is deliuered, with whome (if hee come shortly) I will see you.
\v 24 Salute all them that haue the ouersight of you, and all the Saintes. They of Italie salute you.
\v 25 Grace be with you all, Amen. ‘Written to the Hebrewes from Italie, and sent by Timotheus.’