\c 2
\p
\v 1 If there be therfore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of loue, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any compassion and mercie,
\v 2 Fulfill my ioye, that ye be like minded, hauing the same loue, being of one accorde, and of one iudgement,
\v 3 That nothing be done through contention or vaine glory, but that in meekenesse of minde euery man esteeme other better then himselfe.
\v 4 Looke not euery man on his owne things, but euery man also on the things of other men.
\v 5 Let the same minde be in you that was euen in Christ Iesus,
\v 6 Who being in ye forme of God, thought it no robberie to be equall with God:
\v 7 But he made himself of no reputation, and tooke on him ye forme of a seruant, and was made like vnto men, and was founde in shape as a man.
\v 8 He humbled himselfe, and became obedient vnto the death, euen the death of the Crosse.
\v 9 Wherefore God hath also highly exalted him, and giuen him a Name aboue euery name,
\v 10 That at the Name of Iesus shoulde euery knee bowe, both of things in heauen, and things in earth, and things vnder the earth,
\v 11 And that euery tongue shoulde confesse that Iesus Christ is the Lord, vnto the glory of God the Father.
\v 12 Wherefore my beloued, as ye haue alwayes obeyed me, not as in my presence only, but now much more in mine absence, so make an end of your owne saluation with feare and trembling.
\v 13 For it is God which worketh in you, both the will and the deede, euen of his good pleasure.
\v 14 Do all things without murmuring and reasonings,
\v 15 That ye may be blamelesse, and pure, and the sonnes of God without rebuke in the middes of a naughtie and crooked nation, among whom yee shine as lights in the world,
\v 16 Holding forth the worde of life, that I may reioyce in the day of Christ, that I haue not runne in vaine, neither haue laboured in vaine.
\v 17 Yea, and though I bee offered vp vpon the sacrifice, and seruice of your faith, I am glad, and reioyce with you all.
\v 18 For the same cause also be ye glad, and reioyce with me.
\v 19 And I trust in the Lord Iesus, to sende Timotheus shortly vnto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I knowe your state.
\v 20 For I haue no man like minded, who will faithfully care for your matters.
\v 21 For all seeke their owne, and not that which is Iesus Christes.
\v 22 But yee knowe the proofe of him, that as a sonne with the father, hee hath serued with me in the Gospel.
\v 23 Him therefore I hope to send assoone as I knowe howe it will goe with me,
\v 24 And trust in the Lord, that I also my selfe shall come shortly.
\v 25 But I supposed it necessarie to sende my brother Epaphroditus vnto you, my companion in labour, and fellowe souldier, euen your messenger, and he that ministred vnto me such things as I wanted.
\v 26 For he longed after all you, and was full of heauinesse, because yee had heard that hee had beene sicke.
\v 27 And no doubt he was sicke, very neere vnto death: but God had mercie on him, and not on him onely, but on me also, least I should haue sorowe vpon sorowe.
\v 28 I sent him therefore the more diligently, that when yee shoulde see him againe, yee might reioyce, and I might be the lesse sorowfull.
\v 29 Receiue him therefore in the Lord with all gladnesse, and make much of such:
\v 30 Because that for the woorke of Christ he was neere vnto death, and regarded not his life, to fulfill that seruice which was lacking on your part towarde me.