\c 17
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto Aaron, and to his sonnes, and to all the children of Israel, and say vnto them, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded, saying,
\v 3 Whosoeuer he be of the house of Israel that killeth a bullocke, or lambe, or goate in the hoste, or that killeth it out of the hoste,
\v 4 And bringeth it not vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation to offer an offring vnto the Lord before the Tabernacle of the Lord, blood shalbe imputed vnto that man: he hath shed blood, wherefore that man shall be cut off from among his people.
\v 5 Therefore the children of Israel shall bring their offrings, which they would offer abroad in the fielde, and present the vnto ye Lord at the doore of the Tabernacle of ye Congregation by ye Priest, and offer them for peace offrings vnto the Lord.
\v 6 Then the Priest shall sprinkle the blood vpon the Altar of the Lord before the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and burne the fat for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 7 And they shall no more offer their offerings vnto deuils, after whom they haue gone a whoring: this shalbe an ordinance for euer vnto them in their generations.
\v 8 Also thou shalt say vnto them, whosoeuer he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers which soiourne among them, that offreth a burnt offring or sacrifice,
\v 9 And bringeth it not vnto ye doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation to offer it vnto the Lord, euen that man shall be cut off from his people.
\v 10 Likewise whosoeuer he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that soiourne among them, that eateth any blood, I will euen set my face against that person that eateth blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
\v 11 For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I haue giuen it vnto you to offer vpon the altar, to make an atonement for your soules: for this blood shall make an atonement for the soule.
\v 12 Therefore I saide vnto ye children of Israel, None of you shall eate blood: neither the stranger that soiourneth among you, shall eate blood.
\v 13 Moreouer whosoeuer he be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that soiourne among the, which by hunting taketh any beast or foule that may be eaten, he shall powre out the blood thereof, and couer it with dust:
\v 14 For ye life of all flesh is his blood, it is ioyned with his life: therefore I sayd vnto the children of Israel, Ye shall eate the blood of no flesh: for the life of al flesh is the blood thereof: whosoeuer eateth it, shalbe cut off.
\v 15 And euery person that eateth it which dyeth alone, or that which is torne with beastes, whether it be one of the same countrey or a stranger, he shall both wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and be vncleane vnto the euen: after he shalbe cleane.
\v 16 But if he wash them not, nor wash his flesh, then he shall beare his iniquitie.