\c 6
\p
\v 1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.
\v 2 Honour thy father and mother (which is the first commandement with promise)
\v 3 That it may be well with thee, and that thou mayst liue long on earth.
\v 4 And ye, fathers, prouoke not your children to wrath: but bring them vp in instruction and information of the Lord.
\v 5 Seruants, be obedient vnto them that are your masters, according to the flesh, with feare and trembling in singlenesse of your hearts as vnto Christ,
\v 6 Not with seruice to the eye, as men pleasers, but as the seruants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,
\v 7 With good will, seruing the Lord, and not men.
\v 8 And knowe ye that whatsoeuer good thing any man doeth, that same shall he receiue of the Lord, whether he be bond or free.
\v 9 And ye masters, doe the same things vnto them, putting away threatning: and know that euen your master also is in heauen, neither is there respect of person with him.
\v 10 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.
\v 11 Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the assaultes of the deuil.
\v 12 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, and against the worldly gouernours, the princes of the darkenesse of this worlde, against spirituall wickednesses, which are in ye hie places.
\v 13 For this cause take vnto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to resist in the euill day, and hauing finished all things, stand fast.
\v 14 Stand therefore, and your loynes girded about with veritie, and hauing on the brest plate of righteousnesse,
\v 15 And your feete shod with the preparation of the Gospel of peace.
\v 16 Aboue all, take the shielde of faith, wherewith ye may quench all the fierie dartes of the wicked,
\v 17 And take the helmet of saluation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the worde of God.
\v 18 And pray alwayes with all maner prayer and supplication in the Spirit: and watch thereunto with all perseuerance and supplication for al Saints,
\v 19 And for me, that vtterance may be giuen vnto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to publish the secret of the Gospel,
\v 20 Whereof I am the ambassadour in bonds, that therein I may speake boldely, as I ought to speake.
\v 21 But that ye may also know mine affaires, and what I doe, Tychicus my deare brother and faithfull minister in the Lord, shall shewe you of all things,
\v 22 Whom I haue sent vnto you for the same purpose, that ye might knowe mine affaires, and that he might comfort your hearts.
\v 23 Peace be with the brethren, and loue with faith from God the Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 24 Grace be with all them which loue our Lord Iesus Christ, to their immortalitie, Amen. ‘Written from Rome vnto the Ephesians, and sent by Tychicus.’