\c 2
\p
\v 1 And when any will offer a meate offering vnto the Lord, his offering shall be of fine floure, and he shall powre oyle vpon it, and put incense thereon,
\v 2 And shall bring it vnto Aarons sonnes the Priestes, and he shall take thence his handfull of the flowre, and of the oyle with al the incense, and the Priest shall burne it for a memoriall vpon the altar: for it is an offering made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 3 But the remnant of the meate offering shalbe Aarons and his sonnes: for it is most holy of the Lordes offrings made by fire.
\v 4 If thou bring also a meate offring baken in the ouen, it shalbe an vnleauened cake of fine floure mingled with oyle, or an vnleauened wafer anointed with oyle.
\v 5 But if thy meate offring be an oblation of the frying pan, it shall be of fine flowre vnleauened, mingled with oyle.
\v 6 And thou shalt part it in pieces, and power oyle thereon: for it is a meate offring.
\v 7 And if thy meate offring be an oblation made in the caldron, it shalbe made of fine floure with oyle.
\v 8 After, thou shalt bring the meate offering (that is made of these things) vnto the Lord, and shalt present it vnto the Priest, and he shall bring it to the altar,
\v 9 And the Priest shall take from the meate offring a memoriall of it, and shall burne it vpon the altar: for it is an oblation made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 10 But that which is left of the meate offring, shalbe Aarons and his sonnes: for it is most holy of the offrings of the Lord made by fire.
\v 11 All the meate offrings which ye shall offer vnto the Lord, shalbe made without leauen: for ye shall neither burne leauen nor honie in any offring of the Lord made by fire.
\v 12 In the oblation of the first fruits ye shall offer them vnto the Lord, but they shall not be burnt vpon the altar for a sweete sauour.
\v 13 (All the meate offrings also shalt thou season with salt, neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the couenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meate offring, but vpon all thine oblations thou shalt offer salt)
\v 14 If then thou offer a meate offring of thy first fruites vnto the Lord, thou shalt offer for thy meate offering of thy first fruites eares of corne dryed by the fire, and wheate beaten out of the greene eares.
\v 15 After, thou shalt put oyle vpon it, and lay incense thereon: for it is a meate offring.
\v 16 And the Priest shall burne the memoriall of it, euen of that that is beaten, and of the oyle of it, with all the incense thereof: for it is an offring vnto the Lord made by fire.