\c 6
\p
\v 1 After, I beheld whe the Lambe had opened one of the seales, and I heard one of the foure beastes say, as it were the noise of thunder, Come and see.
\v 2 Therefore I behelde, and loe, there was a white horse, and hee that sate on him, had a bowe, and a crowne was giuen vnto him, and he went forth conquering that he might ouercome.
\v 3 And when he had opened the seconde seale, I heard the second beast say, Come and see.
\v 4 And there went out an other horse, that was red, and power was giuen to him that sate thereon, to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another, and there was giuen vnto him a great sword.
\v 5 And when hee had opened the thirde seale, I heard the thirde beast say, Come and see: Then I behelde, and loe, a blacke horse, and he that sate on him, had balances in his hand.
\v 6 And I heard a voice in the mids of the foure beastes say, A measure of wheate for a penie, and three measures of barly for a peny, and oyle, and wine hurt thou not.
\v 7 And when he had opened the fourth seale, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see.
\v 8 And I looked, and beholde, a pale horse, and his name that sate on him was Death, and Hell folowed after him, and power was giuen vnto them ouer the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sworde, and with hunger, and with death, and with beasts of the earth.
\v 9 And when hee had opened the fifth seale, I sawe vnder the altar the soules of them, that were killed for the worde of God, and for the testimonie which they mainteined.
\v 10 And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, Lord, which art holie and true! doest not thou iudge and auenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?
\v 11 And long white robes were giuen vnto euery one, and it was saide vnto them, that they shoulde rest for a litle season vntill their fellow seruants, and their brethren that shoulde bee killed euen as they were, were fulfilled.
\v 12 And I behelde when hee had opened the sixt seale, and loe, there was a great earthquake, and the sunne was as blacke as sackecloth of heare, and the moone was like blood.
\v 13 And the starres of heauen fell vnto the earth, as a figge tree casteth her greene figges when it is shaken of a mightie winde.
\v 14 And heauen departed away, as a scroule, when it is rolled, and euery mountaine and yle were mooued out of their places.
\v 15 And the Kinges of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chiefe captaines, and the mighty men, and euery bondman, and euery free man, hid themselues in dennes, and among the rockes of the mountaines,
\v 16 And said to the mountaines and rocks, Fal on vs, and hide vs from the presence of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lambe.
\v 17 For the great day of his wrath is come, and who can stand?