\c 20
\p
\v 1 Nowe the first day of the weeke came Marie Magdalene, early when it was yet darke, vnto the sepulchre, and sawe the stone taken away from the tombe.
\v 2 Then she ranne, and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Iesus loued, and saide vnto them, They haue taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we knowe not where they haue laid him.
\v 3 Peter therefore went forth, and the other disciple, and they came vnto the sepulchre.
\v 4 So they ranne both together, but the other disciple did outrunne Peter, and came first to the sepulchre.
\v 5 And he stouped downe, and sawe the linnen clothes lying: yet went he not in.
\v 6 Then came Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and sawe the linnen clothes lye,
\v 7 And the kerchiefe that was vpon his head, not lying with the linnen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by it selfe.
\v 8 Then went in also the other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he sawe it, and beleeued.
\v 9 For as yet they knewe not the Scripture, That he must rise againe from the dead.
\v 10 And the disciples went away againe vnto their owne home.
\v 11 But Marie stoode without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she bowed her selfe into the sepulchre,
\v 12 And sawe two Angels in white, sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feete, where the body of Iesus had laien.
\v 13 And they said vnto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She said vnto them, They haue taken away my Lord, and I know not where they haue laide him.
\v 14 When she had thus said, she turned her selfe backe, and sawe Iesus standing, and knewe not that it was Iesus.
\v 15 Iesus saith vnto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She supposing that he had bene the gardener, said vnto him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.
\v 16 Iesus saith vnto her, Marie. She turned her selfe, and said vnto him, Rabboni, which is to say, Master.
\v 17 Iesus saith vnto her, Touch me not: for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but goe to my brethren, and say vnto them, I ascend vnto my Father, and to your Father, and to my God, and your God.
\v 18 Marie Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seene the Lord, and that he had spoken these things vnto her.
\v 19 The same day then at night, which was the first day of the weeke, and when the doores were shut where the disciples were assembled for feare of the Iewes, came Iesus and stoode in the middes, and saide to them, Peace be vnto you.
\v 20 And when he had so saide, he shewed vnto them his handes, and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they had seene the Lord.
\v 21 Then saide Iesus to them againe, Peace be vnto you: as my Father sent me, so sende I you.
\v 22 And when he had saide that, he breathed on them, and saide vnto them, Receiue the holy Ghost.
\v 23 Whosoeuers sinnes ye remit, they are remitted vnto them: and whosoeuers sinnes ye reteine, they are reteined.
\v 24 But Thomas one of the twelue, called Didymus, was not with them when Iesus came.
\v 25 The other disciples therefore saide vnto him, We haue seene the Lord: but he said vnto them, Except I see in his handes the print of the nailes, and put my finger into the print of the nailes, and put mine hand into his side, I will not beleeue it.
\v 26 And eight dayes after, againe his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Then came Iesus, when the doores were shut, and stood in the middes, and said, Peace be vnto you.
\v 27 After saide he to Thomas, Put thy finger here, and see mine hands, and put forth thine hand, and put it into my side, and be not faithlesse, but faithfull.
\v 28 Then Thomas answered, and said vnto him, Thou art my Lord, and my God.
\v 29 Iesus said vnto him, Thomas, because thou hast seene me, thou beleeuest: blessed are they that haue not seene, and haue beleeued.
\v 30 And many other signes also did Iesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this booke.
\v 31 But these things are written, that ye might beleeue, that Iesus is that Christ that Sonne of God, and that in beleeuing ye might haue life through his Name.