\c 7
\p
\v 1 When hee had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entred into Capernaum.
\v 2 And a certaine Ceturions seruant was sicke and readie to die, which was deare vnto him.
\v 3 And when he heard of Iesus, hee sent vnto him the Elders of the Iewes, beseeching him that he would come, and heale his seruant.
\v 4 So they came to Iesus, and besought him instantly, saying that hee was worthy that hee should doe this for him:
\v 5 For he loueth, said they, our nation, and he hath built vs a Synagogue.
\v 6 Then Iesus went with them: but when he was now not farre from the house, the Centurion sent friendes to him, saying vnto him, Lord, trouble not thy selfe: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter vnder my roofe:
\v 7 Wherefore I thought not my selfe worthy to come vnto thee: but say the word, and my seruant shalbe whole:
\v 8 For I likewise am a man set vnder authoritie, and haue vnder mee souldiers, and I say vnto one, Goe, and he goeth: and to another, Come, and hee commeth: and to my seruant, Doe this, and he doeth it.
\v 9 When Iesus heard these things, he marueiled at him, and turned him, and said to the people, that followed him, I say vnto you, I haue not found so great faith, no not in Israel.
\v 10 And when they that were sent, turned backe to the house, they founde the seruant that was sicke, whole.
\v 11 And it came to passe the day after, that he went into a citie called Nain, and many of his disciples went with him, and a great multitude.
\v 12 Nowe when hee came neere to the gate of the citie, behold, there was a dead man caried out, who was the onely begotten sonne of his mother, which was a widowe, and much people of the citie was with her.
\v 13 And when the Lord sawe her, he had compassion on her, and said vnto her, Weepe not.
\v 14 And he went and touched the coffin (and they that bare him, stoode still) and he said, Yong man, I say vnto thee, Arise.
\v 15 And he that was dead, sate vp, and began to speake, and he deliuered him to his mother.
\v 16 Then there came a feare on them all, and they glorified God, saying, A great Prophet is risen among vs, and God hath visited his people.
\v 17 And this rumour of him went foorth throughout all Iudea, and throughout all the region round about.
\v 18 And the disciples of Iohn shewed him of all these things.
\v 19 So Iohn called vnto him two certaine men of his disciples, and sent them to Iesus, saying, Art thou hee that should come, or shall we waite for another?
\v 20 And when the men were come vnto him, they said, Iohn Baptist hath sent vs vnto thee, saying, Art thou hee that should come, or shall we waite for another?
\v 21 And at that time, he cured many of their sickenesses, and plagues, and of euill spirites, and vnto many blinde men he gaue sight freely.
\v 22 And Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Goe your wayes and shewe Iohn, what things ye haue seene and heard: that the blinde see, the halt goe, the lepers are cleansed, the deafe heare, the dead are raised, and the poore receiue the Gospel.
\v 23 And blessed is hee, that shall not be offended in me.
\v 24 And when the messengers of Iohn were departed, hee began to speake vnto the people, of Iohn, What went ye out into the wildernes to see? A reede shaken with the winde?
\v 25 But what went ye out to see? A man clothed in soft rayment? beholde, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and liue delicately, are in Kings courtes.
\v 26 But what went ye foorth to see? A Prophet? yea, I say to you, and greater then a Prophet.
\v 27 This is he of whom it is written, Beholde, I sende my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
\v 28 For I say vnto you, there is no greater Prophet then Iohn, among them that are begotten of women: neuerthelesse, hee that is the least in the kingdome of God, is greater then he.
\v 29 Then all the people that heard, and the Publicanes iustified God, being baptized with the baptisme of Iohn.
\v 30 But the Pharises and the expounders of the Law despised the counsell of God against themselues, and were not baptized of him.
\v 31 And the Lord saide, Whereunto shall I liken the men of this generation? and what thing are they like vnto?
\v 32 They are like vnto litle children sitting in the market place, and crying one to another, and saying, We haue piped vnto you, and ye haue not daunced: we haue mourned to you, and ye haue not wept.
\v 33 For Iohn Baptist came, neither eating bread, nor drinking wine: and ye say, He hath the deuil.
\v 34 The Sonne of man is come, and eateth and drinketh: and ye say, Beholde, a man which is a glutton, and a drinker of wine, a friend of Publicanes and sinners:
\v 35 But wisdome is iustified of all her children.
\v 36 And one of the Pharises desired him that hee would eate with him: and hee went into the Pharises house, and sate downe at table.
\v 37 And beholde, a woman in the citie, which was a sinner, when she knewe that Iesus sate at table in the Pharises house, shee brought a boxe of oyntment.
\v 38 And shee stoode at his feete behinde him weeping, and began to wash his feete with teares, and did wipe them with the heares of her head, and kissed his feete, and anoynted them with the oyntment.
\v 39 Nowe when the Pharise which bade him, saw it, he spake within himselfe, saying, If this man were a Prophet, hee woulde surely haue knowen who, and what maner of woman this is which toucheth him: for she is a sinner.
\v 40 And Iesus answered, and saide vnto him, Simon, I haue somewhat to say vnto thee. And he said, Master, say on.
\v 41 There was a certaine lender which had two detters: the one ought fiue hundreth pence, and the other fiftie:
\v 42 When they had nothing to pay, he forgaue them both: Which of them therefore, tell mee, will loue him most?
\v 43 Simon answered, and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgaue most. And he said vnto him, Thou hast truely iudged.
\v 44 Then he turned to the woman, and said vnto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entred into thine house, and thou gauest mee no water to my feete: but she hath washed my feete with teares, and wiped them with the heares of her head.
\v 45 Thou gauest me no kisse: but she, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kisse my feete.
\v 46 Mine head with oyle thou didest not anoint: but she hath anoynted my feete with oyntment.
\v 47 Wherefore I say vnto thee, many sinnes are forgiuen her: for she loued much. To whom a litle is forgiuen, he doeth loue a litle.
\v 48 And he saide vnto her, Thy sinnes are forgiuen thee.
\v 49 And they that sate at table with him, began to say within themselues, Who is this that euen forgiueth sinnes?
\v 50 And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saued thee: goe in peace.