\c 1
\p
\v 1 Paul called to be an Apostle of Iesus Christ, through the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes,
\v 2 Vnto the Church of God, which is at Corinthus, to them that are sanctified in Christ Iesus, Saintes by calling, with all that call on the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ in euery place, both their Lord, and ours:
\v 3 Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 4 I thanke my God alwayes on your behalfe for the grace of God, which is giuen you in Iesus Christ,
\v 5 That in all things ye are made rich in him, in all kinde of speach, and in all knowledge:
\v 6 As the testimonie of Iesus Christ hath bene confirmed in you:
\v 7 So that ye are not destitute of any gift: wayting for the appearing of our Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 8 Who shall also confirme you vnto the ende, that ye may be blamelesse, in the day of our Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 9 God is faithfull, by whom ye are called vnto the fellowship of his Sonne Iesus Christ our Lord.
\v 10 Nowe I beseeche you, brethren, by the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ, that ye all speake one thing, and that there be no dissensions among you: but be ye knit together in one mind, and in one iudgement.
\v 11 For it hath bene declared vnto me, my brethren, of you by them that are of the house of Cloe, that there are contentions among you.
\v 12 Nowe this I say, that euery one of you saith, I am Pauls, and I am Apollos, and I am Cephas, and I am Christs.
\v 13 Is Christ deuided? was Paul crucified for you? either were ye baptized into the name of Paul?
\v 14 I thanke God, that I baptized none of you, but Crispus, and Gaius,
\v 15 Lest any should say, that I had baptized into mine owne name.
\v 16 I baptized also the houshold of Stephanas: furthermore knowe I not, whether I baptized any other.
\v 17 For CHRIST sent me not to baptize, but to preache the Gospel, not with wisdome of wordes, lest the crosse of Christ should be made of none effect.
\v 18 For that preaching of the crosse is to them that perish, foolishnesse: but vnto vs, which are saued, it is the power of God.
\v 19 For it is written, I will destroy the wisedome of the wise, and will cast away the vnderstanding of the prudent.
\v 20 Where is the wise? where is the Scribe? where is the disputer of this worlde? hath not God made the wisedome of this worlde foolishnesse?
\v 21 For seeing the worlde by wisedome knewe not God in the wisedome of GOD, it pleased God by the foolishnesse of preaching to saue them that beleeue:
\v 22 Seeing also that the Iewes require a signe, and the Grecians seeke after wisdome.
\v 23 But wee preach Christ crucified: vnto the Iewes, euen a stumbling blocke, and vnto the Grecians, foolishnesse:
\v 24 But vnto them which are called, both of the Iewes and Grecians, we preach Christ, the power of God, and the wisedome of God.
\v 25 For the foolishnesse of God is wiser then men, and the weakenesse of God is stronger then men.
\v 26 For brethren, you see your calling, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called.
\v 27 But God hath chosen the foolish thinges of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weake thinges of the worlde, to confound the mightie things,
\v 28 And vile things of the worlde and thinges which are despised, hath God chosen, and thinges which are not, to bring to nought thinges that are,
\v 29 That no flesh shoulde reioyce in his presence.
\v 30 But ye are of him in Christ Iesus, who of God is made vnto vs wisedome and righteousnesse, and sanctification, and redemption,
\v 31 That, according as it is written, Hee that reioyceth, let him reioyce in the Lord.