\c 14
\p
\v 1 And two daies after followed the feast of the Passeouer, and of vnleauened bread: and the hie Priests, and Scribes sought how they might take him by craft, and put him to death.
\v 2 But they sayde, Not in the feast day, least there be any tumult among the people.
\v 3 And when hee was in Bethania in the house of Simon the leper, as he sate at table, there came a woman hauing a boxe of oyntment of spikenarde, very costly, and shee brake the boxe, and powred it on his head.
\v 4 Therefore some disdained among themselues, and sayde, To what ende is this waste of oyntment?
\v 5 For it might haue bene sold for more then three hundreth pence, and bene giuen vnto the poore, and they murmured against her.
\v 6 But Iesus saide, Let her alone: why trouble yee her? shee hath wrought a good worke on me.
\v 7 For yee haue the poore with you alwaies, and when yee will yee may doe them good, but me yee shall not haue alwaies.
\v 8 She hath done that she coulde: she came afore hand to anoynt my body to the burying.
\v 9 Verely I say vnto you, wheresoeuer this Gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done, shalbe spoken of in remembrance of her.
\v 10 Then Iudas Iscariot, one of the twelue, went away vnto the hie Priestes, to betray him vnto them.
\v 11 And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised that they woulde giue him monie: therefore he sought howe he might conueniently betraie him.
\v 12 Nowe the first day of vnleauened bread, when they sacrificed the Passeouer, his disciples sayde vnto him, Where wilt thou that we goe and prepare, that thou mayest eate the Passeouer?
\v 13 Then hee sent foorth two of his disciples, and sayde vnto them, Goe yee into the citie, and there shall a man meete you bearing a pitcher of water: follow him.
\v 14 And whithersoeuer he goeth in, say yee to the good man of the house, The Master sayeth, Where is the lodging where I shall eate the Passeouer with my disciples?
\v 15 And he wil shewe you an vpper chamber which is large, trimmed and prepared: there make it readie for vs.
\v 16 So his disciples went foorth, and came to the citie, and found as he had said vnto them, and made readie the Passeouer.
\v 17 And at euen he came with the twelue.
\v 18 And as they sate at table and did eate, Iesus said, Verely I say vnto you, that one of you shall betray me, which eateth with me.
\v 19 Then they began to be sorowful and to say to him one by one, Is it I? And another, Is it I?
\v 20 And he answered and sayde vnto them, It is one of the twelue that dippeth with mee in the platter.
\v 21 Truely the Sonne of man goeth his way, as it is written of him: but woe bee to that man, by whome the Sonne of man is betrayed: it had beene good for that man, if hee had neuer beene borne.
\v 22 And as they did eate, Iesus tooke the bread, and when hee had giuen thankes, he brake it and gaue it to them, and sayde, Take, eate, this is my bodie.
\v 23 Also he tooke the cuppe, and when he had giuen thankes, gaue it to them: and they all dranke of it.
\v 24 And he saide vnto them, This is my blood of that newe Testament, which is shed for many.
\v 25 Verely I say vnto you, I wil drinke no more of the fruit of ye vine vntill that day, that I drinke it newe in the kingdome of God.
\v 26 And when they had sung a Psalme, they went out to the mount of Oliues.
\v 27 Then Iesus said vnto them, Al ye shall be offended by mee this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepheard, and the sheepe shall be scattered.
\v 28 But after that I am risen, I will goe into Galile before you.
\v 29 And Peter saide vnto him, Although all men should be offended at thee, yet would not I.
\v 30 Then Iesus saide vnto him, Verely I say vnto thee, this day, euen in this night, before the cocke crowe twise, thou shalt denie me thrise.
\v 31 But he saide more earnestly. If I shoulde die with thee, I will not denie thee: likewise also saide they all.
\v 32 After, they came into a place named Gethsemane: then hee saide to his disciples, Sit yee here, till I haue praied.
\v 33 And hee tooke with him Peter, and Iames, and Iohn, and hee began to be troubled, and in great heauinesse,
\v 34 And saide vnto them, My soule is very heauie, euen vnto the death: tarie here, and watch.
\v 35 So he went forward a litle, and fell downe on the ground, and praied, that if it were possible, that houre might passe from him.
\v 36 And he saide, Abba, Father, all things are possible vnto thee: take away this cup from me: neuertheles not that I will, but that thou wilt, be done.
\v 37 Then hee came, and founde them sleeping, and said to Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou watche one houre?
\v 38 Watch ye, and pray, that ye enter not into tentation: the spirite in deede is ready, but the flesh is weake.
\v 39 And againe hee went away, and praied, and spake the same wordes.
\v 40 And he returned, and founde them a sleepe againe: for their eyes were heauie: neither knewe they what they should answere him.
\v 41 And he came the third time, and said vnto them, Sleepe henceforth, and take your rest: it is ynough: the houre is come: beholde, the Sonne of man is deliuered into the hands of sinners.
\v 42 Rise vp: let vs go: loe, he that betraieth me, is at hand.
\v 43 And immediatly while hee yet spake, came Iudas that was one of the twelue, and with him a great multitude with swordes and staues from the hie Priests, and Scribes, and Elders.
\v 44 And he that betraied him, had giuen them a token, saying, Whomsoeuer I shall kisse, he it is: take him and leade him away safely.
\v 45 And assoone as hee was come, hee went straightway to him, and saide, Haile Master, and kissed him.
\v 46 Then they laide their handes on him, and tooke him.
\v 47 And one of them that stoode by, drewe out a sword, and smote a seruant of the hie Priest, and cut off his eare.
\v 48 And Iesus answered and saide to them, Ye be come out as against a thiefe with swordes, and with staues, to take me.
\v 49 I was daily with you teaching in the Temple, and yee tooke me not: but this is done that the Scriptures should be fulfilled.
\v 50 Then they all forsooke him, and fled.
\v 51 And there followed him a certaine yong man, clothed in linnen vpon his bare bodie, and the yong men caught him.
\v 52 But he left his linnen cloth, and fled from them naked.
\v 53 So they led Iesus away to the hie Priest, and to him came together all the hie Priestes, and the Elders, and the Scribes.
\v 54 And Peter folowed him afarre off, euen into the hall of the hie Priest, and sate with the seruants, and warmed himselfe at the fire.
\v 55 And the hie Priests, and all the Councill sought for witnesse against Iesus, to put him to death, but found none.
\v 56 For many bare false witnesse against him, but their witnesse agreed not together.
\v 57 Then there arose certaine, and bare false witnesse against him, saying,
\v 58 We hearde him say, I will destroy this Temple made with hands, and within three daies I will builde another, made without hands.
\v 59 But their witnesse yet agreed not together.
\v 60 Then the hie Priest stoode vp amongst them, and asked Iesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is the matter that these beare witnesse against thee?
\v 61 But hee helde his peace, and answered nothing. Againe the hie Priest asked him, and sayde vnto him, Art thou that Christ the Sonne of the Blessed?
\v 62 And Iesus said, I am he, and yee shall see the Sonne of man sitte at the right hande of the power of God, and come in the clouds of heauen.
\v 63 Then the hie Priest rent his clothes, and sayd, What haue we any more neede of witnesses?
\v 64 Ye haue heard the blasphemie: what thinke yee? And they all condemned him to be worthie of death.
\v 65 And some began to spit at him, and to couer his face, and to beate him with fists, and to say vnto him, Prophesie. And the sergeants smote him with their roddes.
\v 66 And as Peter was beneath in the hal, there came one of the maides of the hie Priest.
\v 67 And when shee sawe Peter warming him selfe, shee looked on him, and sayde, Thou wast also with Iesus of Nazareth.
\v 68 But he denied it, saying, I knowe him not, neither wot I what thou saiest. Then he went out into the porche, and the cocke crewe.
\v 69 Then a maid sawe him againe, and bega to say to them that stood by, This is one of them.
\v 70 But hee denied it againe: and anon after, they that stoode by, sayde againe to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art of Galile, and thy speach is like.
\v 71 And he began to curse, and sweare, saying, I knowe not this man of whom ye speake.
\v 72 Then the seconde time the cocke crewe, and Peter remembred the woorde that Iesus had saide vnto him, Before the cocke crowe twise, thou shalt denie me thrise, and waying that with himselfe, he wept.