\c 34
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Commande the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When yee come into the land of Canaan, this is the land that shall fall vnto your inheritance: that is, the land of Canaan with the coastes thereof.
\v 3 And your Southquarter shalbe from the wildernesse of Zin to the borders of Edom: so that your Southquarter shall be from the salt Sea coast Eastwarde:
\v 4 And the border shall compasse you from the South to Maaleh-akrabbim, and reach to Zin, and goe out from the South to Kadesh-barnea: thence it shall stretch to Hazar-addar, and go along to Azmon.
\v 5 And the border shall compasse from Azmon vnto the riuer of Egypt, and shall goe out to the Sea.
\v 6 And your Westquarter shall bee the great Sea: euen that border shalbe your Westcoast.
\v 7 And this shall bee your Northquarter: yee shall marke out your border from the great Sea vnto mount Hor.
\v 8 From mount Hor ye shall point out till it come vnto Hamath, and the end of the coast shall be at Zedad.
\v 9 And the coast shall reach out to Ziphron, and goe out at Hazar-enan. this shalbe your Northquarter.
\v 10 And ye shall marke out your Eastquarter from Hazar-enan to Shepham.
\v 11 And the coast shall goe downe from Shepham to Riblah, and from the Eastside of Ain: and the same border shall descend and goe out at the side of the sea of Chinneereth Eastward.
\v 12 Also that border shall goe downe to Iorden, and leaue at the salt Sea. this shalbe your land with the coastes thereof round about.
\v 13 Then Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, This is the lande which yee shall inherite by lot, which the Lord commanded to giue vnto nine tribes and halfe the tribe.
\v 14 For the tribe of the children of Reuben, according to the housholdes of their fathers, and the tribe of the children of Gad, according to their fathers housholdes, and halfe the tribe of Manasseh, haue receiued their inheritance.
\v 15 Two tribes and an halfe tribe haue receiued their inheritance on this side of Iorden toward Iericho full East.
\v 16 Againe the Lord spake to Moses, saying,
\v 17 These are the names of the men which shall deuide ye land vnto you: Eleazar the Priest, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun.
\v 18 And ye shall take also a prince of euerie tribe to deuide the land.
\v 19 The names also of the men are these: Of the tribe of Iudah, Caleb ye sonne of Iephunneh.
\v 20 And of the tribe of the sonnes of Simeon, Shemuel the sonne of Ammihud.
\v 21 Of the tribe of Beniamin, Elidad the sonne of Chislon.
\v 22 Also of the tribe of the sonnes of Dan, the prince Bukki, the sonne of Iogli.
\v 23 Of the sonnes of Ioseph: of the tribe of the sonnes of Manasseh, the prince Hanniel the sonne of Ephod.
\v 24 And of the tribe of the sonnes of Ephraim, the prince Kemuel, the sonne of Shiphtan.
\v 25 Of the tribe also of the sonnes of Zebulun, the prince Elizaphan, the sonne of Parnach.
\v 26 So of the tribe of the sonnes of Issachar, the prince Paltiel the sonne of Azzan.
\v 27 Of the tribe also of the sonnes of Asher, the prince Ahihud, the sonne of Shelomi.
\v 28 And of the tribe of the sonnes of Naphtali, the prince Pedahel, the sonne of Ammihud.
\v 29 These are they, whome the Lord commanded to deuide the inheritance vnto the children of Israel, in the land of Canaan.