\c 22
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto Aaron, and to his sonnes, that they be separated from the holy thinges of the children of Israel, and that they pollute not mine holy name in those things, which they hallowe vnto me: I am the Lord.
\v 3 Say vnto them, Whosoeuer he be of all your seede among your generations after you, that toucheth the holy things which the children of Israel hallowe vnto the Lord, hauing his vncleannesse vpon him, euen that person shall be cut off from my sight: I am the Lord.
\v 4 Whosoeuer also of the seede of Aaron is a leper, or hath a running issue, he shall not eate of the holy things vntill he be cleane: and who so toucheth any that is vncleane, by reason of the dead, or a man whose issue of seede runneth from him,
\v 5 Or the man that toucheth any creeping thing, whereby he may be made vncleane, or a man, by whom he may take vncleannesse, whatsoeuer vncleannesse he hath,
\v 6 The person that hath touched such, shall therefore be vncleane vntill the euen, and shall not eat of ye holy things, except he haue washed his flesh with water.
\v 7 But when the Sunne is downe, hee shalbe cleane, and shall afterward eate of the holy things: for it is his foode.
\v 8 Of a beast that dyeth, or is rent with beasts, whereby he may be defiled, hee shall not eate: I am the Lord.
\v 9 Let them keepe therefore mine ordinance, least they beare their sinne for it, and die for it, if they defile it: I the Lord sanctifie them.
\v 10 There shall no stranger also eate of the holie thing, neither the ghest of the Priest, neither shall an hired seruant eat of the holie thing:
\v 11 But if the Priest bye any with money, he shall eate of it, also he that is borne in his house: they shall eate of his meate.
\v 12 If the Priests daughter also be maried vnto a stranger, she may not eate of the holy offrings.
\v 13 Notwithstanding if the Priests daughter be a widowe or diuorced, and haue no childe, but is returned vnto her fathers house shee shall eate of her fathers bread, as she did in her youth but there shall no stranger eate thereof.
\v 14 If a man eate of the holie thing vnwittingly, he shall put the fift part thereunto, and giue it vnto the Priest with the halowed thing.
\v 15 So they shall not defile the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer vnto the Lord,
\v 16 Neither cause the people to beare the iniquitie of their trespas, while they eate their holy thing: for I the Lord do halowe them.
\v 17 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 18 Speake vnto Aaron, and to his sonnes, and to all the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Whosoeuer he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers in Israel, that will offer his sacrifice for all their vowes, and for all their free offrings, which they vse to offer vnto the Lord for a burnt offring,
\v 19 Yee shall offer of your free minde a male without blemish of the beeues, of the sheepe, or of the goates.
\v 20 Ye shall not offer any thing that hath a blemish: for that shall not be acceptable for you.
\v 21 And whosoeuer bringeth a peace offring vnto ye Lord to accomplish his vowe, or for a free offring, of the beeues, or of the sheepe, his free offring shall bee perfect, no blemish shalbe in it.
\v 22 Blinde, or broken, or maimed, or hauing a wenne, or skiruie, or skabbed: these shall yee not offer vnto the Lord nor make an offring by fire of these vpon the altar of the Lord.
\v 23 Yet a bullocke, or a sheepe that hath any member superfluous, or lacking, such mayest thou present for a free offring, but for a vowe it shall not be accepted.
\v 24 Ye shall not offer vnto ye Lord that which is bruised or crusshed, or broken, or cut away, neither shall ye make an offring thereof in your land,
\v 25 Neither of ye hand of a strager shall ye offer ye bread of your God of any of these, because their corruption is in them, there is a blemish in them: therefore shall they not be accepted for you.
\v 26 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 27 When a bullocke, or a sheepe, or a goate shall be brought foorth, it shalbe euen seuen daies vnder his damme: and from the eight day forth, it shalbe accepted for a sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord.
\v 28 As for the cowe or the ewe, yee shall not kill her, and her yong both in one day.
\v 29 So when ye will offer a thanke offring vnto the Lord, ye shall offer willingly.
\v 30 The same day it shalbe eaten, yee shall leaue none of it vntill the morowe: I am the Lord.
\v 31 Therefore shall ye keepe my commandements and do them: for I am the Lord.
\v 32 Neither shall ye pollute mine holy Name, but I will be halowed among the children of Israel. I the Lord sanctifie you,
\v 33 Which haue brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the Lord.