\c 10
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Make thee two trumpets of siluer: of an whole piece shalt thou make the, that thou mayest vse them for the assembling of the Congregation, and for the departure of the campe.
\v 3 And when they shall blowe with them, all the Congregation shall assemble to thee before the doore of the Tabernacle of the Cogregation.
\v 4 But if they blowe with one, then the princes, or heades ouer the thousandes of Israel shall come vnto thee.
\v 5 But if ye blow an alarme, then the campe of the that pitch on the East part, shall go forward.
\v 6 If ye blowe an alarme the second time, then the hoste of them that lie on the Southside shall march: for they shall blowe an alarme when they remoue.
\v 7 But in assembling the Congregation, ye shall blowe without an alarme.
\v 8 And the sonnes of Aaron the Priest shall blowe the trumpets, and ye shall haue them as a lawe for euer in your generations.
\v 9 And when ye goe to warre in your lande against the enemie that vexeth you, ye shall blowe an alarme with the trumpets, and ye shall bee remembred before the Lord your God, and shalbe saued from your enemies.
\v 10 Also in the day of your gladnesse, and in your feast dayes, and in the beginning of your moneths, ye shall also blow the trumpets ouer your burnt sacrifices, and ouer your peace offrings, that they may be a remembrance for you before your God: I am the Lord your God.
\v 11 And in the seconde yeere, in the seconde moneth, and in the twentieth day of the moneth the cloude was taken vp from the Tabernacle of the Testimonie.
\v 12 And ye children of Israel departed on their iourneys out of the desart of Sinai, and the cloud rested in the wildernesse of Paran.
\v 13 So they first tooke their iourney at the comandement of the Lord, by ye hand of Moses.
\v 14 In the first place went the standerd of the hoste of the children of Iudah, according to their armies: and Nahshon the sonne of Amminabad was ouer his band.
\v 15 And ouer the band of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethaneel ye sonne of Zuar.
\v 16 And ouer the band of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the sonne of Helon.
\v 17 When the Tabernacle was taken downe, then the sonnes of Gershon, and the sonnes of Merari went forward bearing the Tabernacle.
\v 18 After, departed the standerd of the hoste of Reuben, according to their armies, and ouer his band was Elizur the sonne of Shedeur.
\v 19 And ouer the band of the tribe of ye children of Simeon was Shelumiel the sonne of Shurishaddai.
\v 20 And ouer the bande of the tribe of ye children of Gad was Eliasaph the sonne of Deuel.
\v 21 The Kohathites also went forward and bare the Sanctuarie, and the former did set vp the Tabernacle against they came.
\v 22 Then the standerd of the hoste of the children of Ephraim went forward according to their armies, and ouer his bande was Elishama the sonne of Ammiud.
\v 23 And ouer the band of the tribe of ye sonnes of Manasseh was Gamliel the sonne of Pedazur.
\v 24 And ouer the band of ye tribe of the sonnes of Beniamin was Abidan the sonne of Gideoni.
\v 25 Last, the standerd of the hoste of the children of Dan marched, gathering all ye hostes according to their armies: and ouer his bande was Ahiezer the sonne of Ammishaddai.
\v 26 And ouer the bande of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the sonne of Ocran.
\v 27 And ouer the bande of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira ye sonne of Enan.
\v 28 These were the remouings of the children of Israel according to their armies, whe they marched.
\v 29 After, Moses said vnto Hobab ye sonne of Reuel the Midianite, ye father in law of Moses, We go into the place, of which ye Lord said, I will giue it you: Come thou with vs, and we wil doe thee good: for ye Lord hath promised good vnto Israel.
\v 30 And he answered him, I will not goe: but I will depart to mine owne countrey, and to my kindred.
\v 31 Then he sayd, I pray thee, leaue vs not: for thou knowest our camping places in the wildernesse: therefore thou mayest be our guide.
\v 32 And if thou go with vs, what goodnes the Lord shall shew vnto vs, the same will we shewe vnto thee.
\v 33 So they departed from the mount of the Lord, three dayes iourney: and the Arke of the couenant of the Lord went before them in the three dayes iourney, to searche out a resting place for them.
\v 34 And the cloude of the Lord was vpon the by day, when they went out of the campe.
\v 35 And when the Arke went forwarde, Moses saide, Rise vp, Lord, and let thine enemies bee scattered, and let them that hate thee, flee before thee.
\v 36 And when it rested, hee sayde, Returne, O Lord, to the many thousands of Israel.