\c 26
\p
\v 1 And there was a famine in the lande besides the first famine that was in the dayes of Abraham. Wherefore Izhak went to Abimelech King of the Philistims vnto Gerar.
\v 2 For the Lord appeared vnto him, and sayde, Goe not downe into Egypt, but abide in the land which I shall shewe vnto thee.
\v 3 Dwell in this lande, and I will be with thee, and will blesse thee: for to thee, and to thy seede I will giue all these countreys: and I will performe the othe which I sware vnto Abraham thy father.
\v 4 Also I wil cause thy seede to multiply as the starres of heauen, and will giue vnto thy seede all these countreys: and in thy seede shall all the nations of the earth be blessed,
\v 5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voyce and kept mine ordinance, my commandements, my statutes, and my Lawes.
\v 6 So Izhak dwelt in Gerar.
\v 7 And the men of the place asked him of his wife, and he sayd, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She is my wife, least, sayde he, the men of the place shoulde kill me, because of Rebekah: for she was beautifull to the eye.
\v 8 So after hee had bene there long time, Abimelech King of the Philistims looked out at a windowe, and loe, he sawe Izhak sporting with Rebekah his wife.
\v 9 Then Abimelech called Izhak, and sayde, Loe, shee is of a suertie thy wife, and why saydest thou, She is my sister? To whom Izhak answered, Because I thought this, It may be that I shall dye for her.
\v 10 Then Abimelech said, Why hast thou done this vnto vs? one of the people had almost lien by thy wife, so shouldest thou haue brought sinne vpon vs.
\v 11 Then Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth this man, or his wife, shall die the death.
\v 12 Afterwarde Izhak sowed in that lande, and founde in the same yeere an hundreth folde by estimation: and so the Lord blessed him.
\v 13 And the man waxed mightie, and stil increased, till he was exceeding great,
\v 14 For he had flockes of sheepe, and heards of cattell, and a mightie housholde: therefore the Philistims had enuy at him.
\v 15 In so much that the Philistims stopped and filled vp with earth all the welles, which his fathers seruantes digged in his father Abrahams time.
\v 16 Then Abimelech sayde vnto Izhak, Get thee from vs, for thou art mightier then wee a great deale.
\v 17 Therefore Izhak departed thence and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.
\v 18 And Izhak returning, digged the welles of water, which they had digged in the dayes of Abraham his father: for the Philistims had stopped them after the death of Abraham, and hee gaue them the same names, which his father gaue them.
\v 19 Izhaks seruantes then digged in the valley, and found there a well of liuing water.
\v 20 But the herdmen of Gerar did striue with Izhaks herdmen, saying, The water is ours: therefore called he the name of the well Esek, because they were at strife with him.
\v 21 Afterwarde they digged another well, and stroue for that also, and he called the name of it Sitnah.
\v 22 Then he remoued thence, and digged an other well, for the which they stroue not: therefore called hee the name of it Rehoboth, and sayde, Because the Lord hath nowe made vs roome, we shall increase vpon the earth.
\v 23 So he went vp thence to Beer-sheba.
\v 24 And the Lord appeared vnto him the same night, and sayde, I am the God of Abraham thy father: feare not, for I am with thee, and wil blesse thee, and will multiplie thy seede for my seruant Abrahams sake.
\v 25 Then he builte an altar there, and called vpon the Name of the Lord, and there spred his tent: where also Izhaks seruauntes digged a well.
\v 26 Then came Abimelech to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friendes, and Phichol the captaine of his armie.
\v 27 To whom Izhak sayd, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate mee and haue put mee away from you?
\v 28 Who answered, Wee sawe certainely that the Lord was with thee, and wee thought thus, Let there be nowe an othe betweene vs, euen betweene vs and thee, and let vs make a couenant with thee.
\v 29 If thou shalt do vs no hurt, as we haue not touched thee, and as we haue done vnto thee nothing but good, and sent thee away in peace: thou nowe, the blessed of the Lord, doe this.
\v 30 Then hee made them a feast, and they dyd eate and drinke.
\v 31 And they rose vp betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: then Izhak let them go, and they departed from him in peace.
\v 32 And that same day Izhaks seruantes came and tolde him of a well, which they had digged, and said vnto him, We haue found water.
\v 33 So hee called it Shibah: therefore the name of the citie is called Beer-sheba vnto this day.
\v 34 Nowe when Esau was fourtie yeere olde, he tooke to wife Iudith, the daughter of Beeri an Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon an Hittite also.
\v 35 And they were a griefe of minde to Izhak and to Rebekah.