\c 12
\p
\v 1 Then Iesus, sixe dayes before the Passeouer, came to Bethania, where Lazarus was, who died, whom he had raised from the dead.
\v 2 There they made him a supper, and Martha serued: but Lazarus was one of them that sate at the table with him.
\v 3 Then tooke Mary a pound of oyntment of Spikenarde very costly, and anoynted Iesus feete, and wiped his feete with her heare, and the house was filled with the sauour of the oyntment.
\v 4 Then said one of his disciples, euen Iudas Iscariot Simons sonne, which should betray him:
\v 5 Why was not this oyntment sold for three hundreth pence, and giuen to the poore?
\v 6 Nowe he said this, not that he cared for the poore, but because hee was a theefe, and had the bagge, and bare that which was giuen.
\v 7 Then said Iesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying she kept it.
\v 8 For the poore alwayes yee haue with you, but me ye shall not haue alwayes.
\v 9 Then much people of the Iewes knewe that hee was there: and they came, not for Iesus sake onely, but that they might see Lazarus also, whome he had raysed from the dead.
\v 10 The hie Priestes therefore consulted, that they might put Lazarus to death also,
\v 11 Because that for his sake many of the Iewes went away, and beleeued in Iesus.
\v 12 On the morowe a great multitude that were come to the feast, when they heard that Iesus should come to Hierusalem,
\v 13 Tooke branches of palme trees, and went foorth to meete him, and cried, Hosanna, Blessed is the King of Israel that commeth in the Name of the Lord.
\v 14 And Iesus found a yong asse, and sate thereon, as it is written,
\v 15 Feare not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King commeth sitting on an asses colte.
\v 16 But his disciples vnderstoode not these thinges at the first: but when Iesus was glorified, then remembred they, that these thinges were written of him, and that they had done these things vnto him.
\v 17 The people therefore that was with him, bare witnesse that hee called Lazarus out of the graue, and raised him from the dead.
\v 18 Therefore mette him the people also, because they heard that he had done this miracle.
\v 19 And the Pharises said among themselues, Perceiue ye howe ye preuaile nothing? Beholde, the worlde goeth after him.
\v 20 Nowe there were certaine Greekes among them that came vp to worship at the feast.
\v 21 And they came to Philippe, which was of Bethsaida in Galile, and desired him, saying, Syr, we would see that Iesus.
\v 22 Philippe came and tolde Andrew: and againe Andrew and Philippe tolde Iesus.
\v 23 And Iesus answered them, saying, The houre is come, that the Sonne of man must bee glorified.
\v 24 Verely, verely I say vnto you, Except the wheate corne fall into the grounde and die, it bideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth foorth much fruite.
\v 25 He that loueth his life, shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this world, shall keepe it vnto life eternall.
\v 26 If any man serue me, let him follow me: for where I am, there shall also my seruant be: and if any man serue me, him will my Father honour.
\v 27 Now is my soule troubled: and what shall I say? Father, saue me from this houre: but therefore came I vnto this houre.
\v 28 Father, glorifie thy Name. Then came there a voyce from heauen, saying, I haue both glorified it, and will glorifie it againe.
\v 29 Then saide the people that stoode by, and heard, that it was a thunder: other said, An Angel spake to him.
\v 30 Iesus answered, and said, This voyce came not because of me, but for your sakes.
\v 31 Now is the iudgement of this world: nowe shall the prince of this world be cast out.
\v 32 And I, if I were lift vp from the earth, will drawe all men vnto me.
\v 33 Nowe this sayd he, signifying what death he should die.
\v 34 The people answered him, We haue heard out of the Law, that that Christ bideth for euer: and howe sayest thou, that that Sonne of man must be lift vp? Who is that Sonne of man?
\v 35 Then Iesus sayd vnto them, Yet a litle while is the light with you: walke while ye haue that light, lest the darkenes come vpon you: for hee that walketh in the darke, knoweth not whither he goeth.
\v 36 While ye haue that light, beleeue in that light, that ye may be the children of the light. These things spake Iesus, and departed, and hid himselfe from them.
\v 37 And though he had done so many miracles before them, yet beleeued they not on him,
\v 38 That the saying of Esaias the Prophete might be fulfilled, that he sayd, Lord, who beleeued our report? and to whome is the arme of the Lord reueiled?
\v 39 Therefore could they not beleeue, because that Esaias saith againe,
\v 40 He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart, that they shoulde not see with their eyes, nor vnderstand with their heart, and should be conuerted, and I should heale them.
\v 41 These things sayd Esaias when he sawe his glory, and spake of him.
\v 42 Neuertheles, euen among the chiefe rulers, many beleeued in him: but because of the Pharises they did not confesse him, least they should be cast out of the Synagogue.
\v 43 For they loued the prayse of men, more then the prayse of God.
\v 44 And Iesus cryed, and sayd, He that beleeueth in me, beleeueth not in me, but in him that sent me.
\v 45 And he that seeth me, seeth him that sent me.
\v 46 I am come a light into the world, that whosoeuer beleeueth in me, should not abide in darkenes.
\v 47 And if any man heare my wordes, and beleeue not, I iudge him not: for I came not to iudge the world, but to saue the world.
\v 48 He that refuseth me, and receiueth not my wordes, hath one that iudgeth him: the worde that I haue spoken, it shall iudge him in the last day.
\v 49 For I haue not spoken of my selfe: but the Father which sent me, hee gaue me a commandement what I should say, and what I should speake.
\v 50 And I knowe that his commandement is life euerlasting: the thinges therefore that I speake, I speake them so as the Father sayde vnto me.