\c 25
\p
\v 1 Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto the children of Israel, that they receiue an offring for me: of euery man, whose heart giueth it freely, ye shall take the offring for me.
\v 3 And this is the offring which ye shall take of them, golde, and siluer, and brasse,
\v 4 And blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linnen, and goates heare,
\v 5 And rammes skinnes coloured red, and the skinnes of badgers, and the wood Shittim,
\v 6 Oyle for the light, spices for anoynting oyle, and for the perfume of sweete sauour,
\v 7 Onix stones, and stones to be set in the Ephod, and in the brest plate.
\v 8 Also they shall make me a Sanctuarie, that I may dwell among them.
\v 9 According to all that I shewe thee, euen so shall ye make the forme of the Tabernacle, and the facion of all the instruments thereof.
\v 10 They shall make also an Arke of Shittim wood, two cubites and an halfe long, and a cubite and an halfe broade, and a cubite and an halfe hie.
\v 11 And thou shalt ouerlay it with pure golde: within and without shalt thou ouerlay it, and shalt make vpon it a crowne of golde rounde about.
\v 12 And thou shalt cast foure rings of golde for it, and put them in the foure corners thereof: that is, two rings shalbe on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side thereof.
\v 13 And thou shalt make barres of Shittim wood, and couer them with golde.
\v 14 Then thou shalt put the barres in the rings by the sides of the Arke, to beare the Arke with them.
\v 15 The barres shalbe in the rings of the Arke: they shall not be taken away from it.
\v 16 So thou shalt put in the Arke the Testimonie which I shall giue thee.
\v 17 Also thou shalt make a Mercie seate of pure golde, two cubites and an halfe long, and a cubite and an halfe broade.
\v 18 And thou shalt make two Cherubims of golde: of worke beaten out with the hammer shalt thou make the at ye two endes of the Merciseate.
\v 19 And the one Cherub shalt thou make at the one ende, and the other Cherub at the other ende: of the matter of the Mercieseate shall ye make the Cherubims, on the two endes thereof.
\v 20 And the Cherubims shall stretche their winges on hie, couering the Mercie seate with their winges, and their faces one to another: to the Mercie seate warde shall the faces of the Cherubims be.
\v 21 And thou shalt put the Mercieseate aboue vpon the Arke, and in the Arke thou shalt put the Testimonie, which I will giue thee,
\v 22 And there I will declare my selfe vnto thee, and from aboue ye Mercieseate betweene ye two Cherubims, which are vpon ye Arke of ye Testimonie, I wil tel thee al things which I wil giue thee in comandement vnto ye children of Israel.
\v 23 Thou shalt also make a Table of Shittim wood, of two cubites long, and one cubite broade, and a cubite and an halfe hie:
\v 24 And thou shalt couer it with pure gold, and make thereto a crowne of golde round about.
\v 25 Thou shalt also make vnto it a border of foure fingers roud about and thou shalt make a golden crowne round about the border thereof.
\v 26 After, thou shalt make for it foure ringes of golde, and shalt put the rings in the foure corners that are in the foure feete thereof:
\v 27 Ouer against the border shall the rings be for places for barres, to beare the Table.
\v 28 And thou shalt make the barres of Shittim wood, and shalt ouerlay them with golde, that the Table may be borne with them.
\v 29 Thou shalt make also dishes for it, and incense cuppes for it, and couerings for it, and goblets, wherewith it shall be couered, euen of fine golde shalt thou make them.
\v 30 And thou shalt set vpon the Table shewe bread before me continually.
\v 31 Also thou shalt make a Candlesticke of pure golde: of worke beaten out with the hammer shall the Candlesticke be made, his shaft, and his branches, his boules, his knops: and his floures shalbe of the same.
\v 32 Six braunches also shall come out of the sides of it: three branches of the Candlesticke out of the one side of it, and three branches of the Candlesticke out of the other side of it.
\v 33 Three boules like vnto almondes, one knop and one floure in one braunch: and three boules like almondes in the other branch, one knop and one floure: so throughout the sixe branches that come out of the Candlesticke.
\v 34 And in the shaft of the Candlesticke shalbe foure boules like vnto almondes, his knops and his floures.
\v 35 And there shalbe a knop vnder two branches made thereof: and a knop vnder two branches made thereof: and a knop vnder two branches made thereof, according to the sixe branches comming out of the Candlesticke.
\v 36 Their knops and their branches shall bee thereof. all this shalbe one beaten worke of pure golde.
\v 37 And thou shalt make the seuen lampes thereof: and the lampes thereof shalt thou put thereon, to giue light toward that that is before it.
\v 38 Also the snuffers and snuffedishes thereof shalbe of pure golde.
\v 39 Of a talent of fine gold shalt thou make it with all these instruments.
\v 40 Looke therefore that thou make them after their facion, that was shewed thee in the mountaine.