\c 1
\p
\v 1 Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt (euery man and his housholde came thither with Iaakob)
\v 2 Reuben, Simeon, Leui, and Iudah,
\v 3 Issachar, Zebulun, and Beniamin,
\v 4 Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
\v 5 So al the soules, that came out of the loines of Iaakob, were seuentie soules: Ioseph was in Egypt already.
\v 6 Nowe Ioseph died and all his brethren, and that whole generation.
\v 7 And the children of Israel brought foorth fruite and encreased in aboundance, and were multiplied, and were exceeding mightie, so that the land was full of them.
\v 8 Then there rose vp a newe King in Egypt, who knewe not Ioseph.
\v 9 And he sayde vnto his people, Beholde, the people of the children of Israel are greater and mightier then we.
\v 10 Come, let vs worke wisely with them, least they multiplie, and it come to passe, that if there be warre, they ioyne them selues also vnto our enemies, and fight against vs, and get them out of the land.
\v 11 Therefore did they set taskemasters ouer them, to keepe the vnder with burdens: and they built the cities Pithom and Raamses for the treasures of Pharaoh.
\v 12 But the more they vexed them, the more they multiplied and grewe: therefore they were more grieued against the children of Israel.
\v 13 Wherefore the Egyptians by crueltie caused the children of Israel to serue.
\v 14 Thus they made them weary of their liues by sore labour in clay and in bricke, and in al worke in the fielde, with all maner of bondage, which they layde vpon them most cruelly.
\v 15 Moreouer the King of Egypt commanded ye midwiues of the Ebrewe women, (of which the ones name was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah)
\v 16 And sayde, When ye doe the office of a midwife to the women of the Ebrewes, and see them on their stooles, if it be a sonne, then yee shall kill him: but if it be a daughter, then let her liue.
\v 17 Notwithstanding ye midwiues feared God, and did not as the King of Egypt commanded them, but preserued aliue the men children.
\v 18 Then the King of Egypt called for the midwiues, and sayde vnto them, Why haue yee done thus, and haue preserued aliue the men children?
\v 19 And the midwiues answered Pharaoh, Because the Ebrewe women are not as the women of Egypt: for they are liuely, and are deliuered yer the midwife come at them.
\v 20 God therefore prospered the midwiues, and the people multiplied and were very mightie.
\v 21 And because ye midwiues feared God, therefore he made them houses.
\v 22 Then Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Euery man childe that is borne, cast yee into the riuer, but reserue euery maide childe aliue.