\c 1
\p
\v 1 The booke of the generation of Jesus Christ the sonne of Dauid, the sonne of Abraham.
\v 2 Abraham begate Isaac. And Isaac begate Iacob. And Iacob begat Iudas and his brethren.
\v 3 And Iudas begate Phares, and Zara of Thamar. And Phares begate Esrom. And Esrom begate Aram.
\v 4 And Aram begate Aminadab. And Aminadab begate Naasson. And Naasson begat Salmon.
\v 5 And Salmon begate Booz of Rachab. And Booz begat Obed of Ruth. and Obed begat Iesse.
\v 6 And Iesse begate Dauid the King. And Dauid the King begate Salomon of her that was the wife of Vrias.
\v 7 And Salomon begate Roboam. And Roboam begate Abia. And Abia begate Asa.
\v 8 And Asa begate Iosaphat. And Iosaphat begate Ioram. And Ioram begate Hozias.
\v 9 And Hozias begat Ioatham. And Ioatham begate Achaz. And Achaz begate Ezekias.
\v 10 And Ezekias begate Manasses. And Manasses begate Amon. And Amon begate Iosias.
\v 11 And Iosias begate Iakim. And Iakim begate Iechonias and his brethren about the time they were caried away to Babylon.
\v 12 And after they were caried away into Babylon, Iechonias begate Salathiel. And Salathiel begate Zorobabel.
\v 13 And Zorobabel begate Abiud. And Abiud begate Eliacim. And Eliacim begate Azor.
\v 14 And Azor begate Sadoc. And Sadoc begate Achim. And Achim begate Eliud.
\v 15 And Eliud begate Eleazar. And Eleazar begate Matthan. And Matthan begate Iacob.
\v 16 And Iacob begat Ioseph ye husband of Mary, of whom was borne Jesus, that is called Christ.
\v 17 So all the generations from Abraham to Dauid, are fourtene generations. And from Dauid vntil they were caried away into Babylon, fourtene generations: and after they were caried away into Babylon vntill Christ, fourteene generations.
\v 18 Nowe the birth of Jesus Christ was thus, When as his mother Mary was betrothed to Ioseph, before they came together, shee was found with childe of the holy Ghost.
\v 19 Then Ioseph her husband being a iust man, and not willing to make her a publike example, was minded to put her away secretly.
\v 20 But whiles he thought these things, behold, the Angel of the Lord appeared vnto him in a dreame, saying, Ioseph, the sonne of Dauid, feare not to take Mary thy wife: for that which is conceiued in her, is of the holy Ghost.
\v 21 And she shall bring foorth a sonne, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for hee shall saue his people from their sinnes.
\v 22 And al this was done that it might be fulfilled, which is spoken of the Lord by ye Prophet, saying,
\v 23 Behold, a virgine shalbe with childe, and shall beare a sonne, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is by interpretation, God with vs.
\v 24 Then Ioseph, being raised from sleepe, did as the Angel of the Lord had inioyned him, and tooke his wife.
\v 25 But he knew her not, til she had broght forth her first borne sonne, and he called his name JESUS.