\c 2
\p
\v 1 After a fewe dayes, hee entred into Capernaum againe, and it was noysed that he was in the house.
\v 2 And anon, many gathered together, in so much that the places about the doore coulde not receiue any more and he preached the word vnto them.
\v 3 And there came vnto him, that brought one sicke of the palsie, borne of foure men.
\v 4 And because they could not come neere vnto him for the multitude, they vncouered ye roofe of the house where hee was: and when they had broken it open, they let downe the bed, wherein the sicke of the palsie lay.
\v 5 Nowe when Iesus sawe their faith, he saide to the sicke of the palsie, Sonne, thy sinnes are forgiuen thee.
\v 6 And there were certaine of the Scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,
\v 7 Why doeth this man speake such blasphemies? who can forgiue sinnes, but God onely?
\v 8 And immediatly when Iesus perceiued in his spirite, that thus they reasoned with themselues, he sayde vnto them, Why reason yee these things in your hearts?
\v 9 Whether is it easier to say to the sicke of the palsie, Thy sinnes are forgiuen thee? or to say, Arise, and take vp thy bed, and walke?
\v 10 But that ye may knowe, that the Sonne of man hath authoritie in earth to forgiue sinnes, (he sayde vnto the sicke of the palsie.)
\v 11 I say vnto thee, Arise and take vp thy bed, and get thee hence into thine owne house.
\v 12 And by and by he arose, and tooke vp his bed, and went foorth before them all, in so much that they were all amased, and glorified God, saying, We neuer sawe such a thing.
\v 13 Then he went foorth againe towarde the sea, and all the people resorted vnto him, and he taught them.
\v 14 And as Iesus passed by, hee sawe Leui the sonne of Alpheus sit at the receit of custome, and said vnto him, Folowe me. And he arose and followed him.
\v 15 And it came to passe, as Iesus sate at table in his house, many Publicanes and sinners sate at table also with Iesus, and his disciples: for there were many that followed him.
\v 16 And when the Scribes and Pharises sawe him eate with the Publicanes and sinners, they sayd vnto his disciples, Howe is it, that hee eateth and drinketh with Publicanes and sinners?
\v 17 Now when Iesus heard it, hee sayde vnto them, The whole haue no neede of the Physicion, but the sicke. I came not to call the righteous, but the sinners to repentance.
\v 18 And the disciples of Iohn, and the Pharises did fast, and came and saide vnto him, Why doe the disciples of Iohn, and of the Pharises fast, and thy disciples fast not?
\v 19 And Iesus saide vnto them, Can the children of the marriage chamber fast, whiles the bridegrome is with them? as long as they haue the bridegrome with them, they cannot fast.
\v 20 But the daies will come, when the bridegrome shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast in those daies.
\v 21 Also no man soweth a piece of newe cloth in an olde garment: for els the newe piece that filled it vp, taketh away somewhat from the olde, and the breach is worse.
\v 22 Likewise, no man putteth newe wine into old vessels: for els the new wine breaketh the vessels, and the wine runneth out, and the vessels are lost: but newe wine must be put into new vessels.
\v 23 And it came to passe as hee went through the corne on the Sabbath day, that his disciples, as they went on their way, began to plucke the eares of corne.
\v 24 And the Pharises saide vnto him, Beholde, why doe they on the Sabbath day, that which is not lawfull?
\v 25 And he saide to them, Haue yee neuer read what Dauid did when he had neede, and was an hungred, both he, and they that were with him?
\v 26 Howe he went into the house of God, in the daies of Abiathar the hie Priest, and did eat the shewe bread, which were not lawfull to eate, but for the Priests, and gaue also to them which were with him?
\v 27 And hee sayde to them, The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
\v 28 Wherefore the Sonne of man is Lord, euen of the Sabbath.