\c 19
\p
\v 1 And it came to passe, that when Iesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galile, and came into ye coasts of Iudea beyond Iordan.
\v 2 And great multitudes followed him, and he healed them there.
\v 3 Then came vnto him the Pharises tempting him, and saying to him, Is it lawfull for a man to put away his wife vpon euery occasion?
\v 4 And he answered and sayd vnto them, Haue ye not read, that hee which made them at the beginning, made them male and female,
\v 5 And sayd, For this cause, shall a man leaue father and mother, and cleaue vnto his wife, and they which were two shalbe one flesh.
\v 6 Wherefore they are no more twaine, but one flesh. Let not man therefore put asunder that, which God hath coupled together.
\v 7 They said to him, Why did then Moses commaund to giue a bill of diuorcement, and to put her away?
\v 8 He sayd vnto them, Moses, because of the hardnesse of your heart, suffered you to put away your wiues: but from the beginning it was not so.
\v 9 I say therefore vnto you, that whosoeuer shall put away his wife, except it be for whoredome, and marry another, committeth adulterie: and whosoeuer marieth her which is diuorced, doeth commit adulterie.
\v 10 Then sayd his disciples to him, If the matter be so betweene man and wife, it is not good to marry.
\v 11 But he sayd vnto them, All men cannot receiue this thing, saue they to whom it is giuen.
\v 12 For there are some eunuches, which were so borne of their mothers belly: and there be some eunuches, which be gelded by men: and there be some eunuches, which haue gelded them selues for the kingdome of heauen. He that is able to receiue this, let him receiue it.
\v 13 Then were brought to him litle children, that he should put his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them.
\v 14 But Iesus sayd, Suffer the litle children, and forbid them not to come to me: for of such is the kingdome of heauen.
\v 15 And when he had put his hands on them, he departed thence.
\v 16 And beholde, one came and sayd vnto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I doe, that I may haue eternall life?
\v 17 And he said vnto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, eue God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keepe ye commandemets.
\v 18 He sayd to him, Which? And Iesus sayde, These, Thou shalt not kill: Thou shalt not commit adulterie: Thou shalt not steale: Thou shalt not beare false witnesse.
\v 19 Honour thy father and mother: and thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe.
\v 20 The yong man sayd vnto him, I haue obserued all these things from my youth: what lacke I yet?
\v 21 Iesus sayd vnto him, If thou wilt be perfite, go, sell that thou hast, and giue it to the poore, and thou shalt haue treasure in heauen, and come, and follow me.
\v 22 And when the yong man heard that saying, he went away sorowfull: for he had great possessions.
\v 23 Then Iesus sayd vnto his disciples, Verely I say vnto you, that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdome of heauen.
\v 24 And againe I say vnto you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, then for a rich man to enter into ye kingdome of God.
\v 25 And whe his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amased, saying, Who then can be saued?
\v 26 And Iesus behelde them, and sayde vnto them, With men this is vnpossible, but with God all things are possible.
\v 27 Then answered Peter, and said to him, Beholde, we haue forsaken all, and followed thee: what therefore shall we haue?
\v 28 And Iesus said vnto them, Verely I say to you, that when the Sonne of man shall sit in the throne of his maiestie, ye which folowed me in the regeneration, shall sit also vpon twelue thrones and iudge the twelue tribes of Israel.
\v 29 And whosoeuer shall forsake houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my Names sake, he shall receiue an hundreth folde more, and shall inherite euerlasting life.
\v 30 But many that are first, shalbe last, and the last shalbe first.