\c 10
\p
\v 1 And hee called his twelue disciples vnto him, and gaue them power against vncleane spirits, to cast them out, and to heale euery sickenesse, and euery disease.
\v 2 Nowe the names of the twelue Apostles are these. The first is Simon, called Peter, and Andrew his brother: Iames the sonne of Zebedeus, and Iohn his brother.
\v 3 Philippe and Bartlemewe: Thomas, and Matthewe that Publicane: Iames the sonne of Alpheus, and Lebbeus whose surname was Thaddeus:
\v 4 Simon the Cananite, and Iudas Iscariot, who also betraied him.
\v 5 These twelue did Iesus send forth, and commanded them, saying, Goe not into the way of of the Gentiles, and into the cities of the Samaritans enter yee not:
\v 6 But goe rather to the lost sheepe of the house of Israel.
\v 7 And as ye goe, preach, saying, The kingdome of heauen is at hand.
\v 8 Heale the sicke: cleanse the lepers: raise vp the dead: cast out the deuils. Freely ye haue receiued, freely giue.
\v 9 Possesse not golde, nor siluer, nor money in your girdels,
\v 10 Nor a scrippe for the iourney, neither two coates, neither shoes, nor a staffe: for the workeman is worthie of his meate.
\v 11 And into whatsoeuer citie or towne ye shall come, enquire who is worthy in it, and there abide till yee goe thence.
\v 12 And when yee come into an house, salute the same.
\v 13 And if the house be worthy, let your peace come vpon it: but if it be not worthie, let your peace returne to you.
\v 14 And whosoeuer shall not receiue you, nor heare your woordes, when yee depart out of that house, or that citie, shake off the dust of your feete.
\v 15 Truely I say vnto you, it shall be easier for them of the lande of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of iudgement, then for that citie.
\v 16 Behold, I send you as sheepe in the middes of the wolues: be yee therefore wise as serpents, and innocent as doues.
\v 17 But beware of men, for they will deliuer you vp to the Councils, and will scourge you in their Synagogues.
\v 18 And ye shall be brought to the gouernours and Kings for my sake, in witnes to them, and to the Gentiles.
\v 19 But when they deliuer you vp, take no thought howe or what ye shall speake: for it shall be giuen you in that houre, what ye shall say.
\v 20 For it is not yee that speake, but the spirite of your father which speaketh in you.
\v 21 And the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the sonne, and the children shall rise against their parents, and shall cause them to die.
\v 22 And yee shall be hated of all men for my Name: but he that endureth to the end, he shall be saued.
\v 23 And when they persecute you in this citie, flee into another: for verely I say vnto you, yee shall not goe ouer all the cities of Israel, till the Sonne of man be come.
\v 24 The disciple is not aboue his master, nor the seruant aboue his Lord.
\v 25 It is ynough for the disciple to bee as his master is, and the seruaunt as his Lord. If they haue called the master of the house Beel-zebub, howe much more them of his housholde?
\v 26 Feare them not therefore: for there is nothing couered, that shall not be disclosed, nor hid, that shall not be knowen.
\v 27 What I tell you in darkenesse, that speake yee in light: and what yee heare in the eare, that preach yee on the houses.
\v 28 And feare yee not them which kill the bodie, but are nor able to kill the soule: but rather feare him, which is able to destroy both soule and bodie in hell.
\v 29 Are not two sparrowes sold for a farthing, and one of them shall not fal on the ground without your Father?
\v 30 Yea, and all the heares of your head are nombred.
\v 31 Feare ye not therefore, yee are of more value then many sparowes.
\v 32 Whosoeuer therefore shall confesse me before men, him will I confesse also before my Father which is in heauen.
\v 33 But whosoeuer shall denie me before me, him will I also denie before my Father which is in heauen.
\v 34 Thinke not that I am come to sende peace into the earth: I came not to send peace, but the sworde.
\v 35 For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in lawe.
\v 36 And a mans enemies shall be they of his owne housholde.
\v 37 He that loueth father or mother more then me, is not worthie of me. And he that loueth sonne, or daughter more then mee, is not worthie of me.
\v 38 And hee that taketh not his crosse, and followeth after me, is not worthie of me.
\v 39 He that will finde his life, shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake, shall finde it.
\v 40 He that receiueth you, receiueth me: and hee that receiueth mee, receiueth him that hath sent me.
\v 41 Hee that receiueth a Prophet in the name of a Prophet, shall receiue a Prophetes rewarde: and hee that receiueth a righteous man, in the name of a righteous man, shall receiue the rewarde of a righteous man.
\v 42 And whosoeuer shall giue vnto one of these litle ones to drinke a cuppe of colde water onely, in the name of a disciple, verely I say vnto you, he shall not lose his rewarde.