\c 10
\p
\v 1 Nowe I Paul my selfe beseech you by the meekenes, and gentlenes of Christ, which when I am present among you am base, but am bolde toward you being absent:
\v 2 And this I require you, that I neede not to be bolde when I am present, with that same confidence, wherewith I thinke to bee bolde against some, which esteeme vs as though wee walked according to the flesh.
\v 3 Neuerthelesse, though wee walke in the flesh, yet we doe not warre after the flesh.
\v 4 (For the weapons of our warrefare are not carnall, but mightie through God, to cast downe holdes)
\v 5 Casting downe the imaginations, and euery high thing that is exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captiuitie euery thought to the obedience of Christ,
\v 6 And hauing ready the vengeance against all disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled.
\v 7 Looke yee on things after the appearance? If any man trust in himselfe that hee is Christes, let him consider this againe of himself, that as he is Christes, euen so are we Christes.
\v 8 For though I shoulde boast somewhat more of our authoritie, which the Lord hath giuen vs for edification, and not for your destruction, I should haue no shame.
\v 9 This I say, that I may not seeme as it were to feare you with letters.
\v 10 For the letters, sayeth hee, are sore and strong, but his bodily presence is weake, and his speache is of no value.
\v 11 Let such one thinke this, that such as wee are in woorde by letters, when we are absent, such wil we be also in deede, when we are present.
\v 12 For wee dare not make our selues of the nomber, or to compare our selues to them, which praise themselues: but they vnderstand not that they measure themselues with themselues, and compare themselues with themselues.
\v 13 But we wil not reioyce of things, which are not within our measure, but according to the measure of the line, whereof God hath distributed vnto vs a measure to attaine euen vnto you.
\v 14 For we stretche not our selues beyonde our measure, as though wee had not attained vnto you: for euen to you also haue we come in preaching the Gospel of Christ,
\v 15 Not boasting of things which are without our measure: that is, of other mens labours: and we hope, when your faith shall increase, to bee magnified by you according to our line aboundantly,
\v 16 And to preache the Gospel in those regions which are beyonde you: not to reioyce in another mans line, that is, in the thinges that are prepared alreadie.
\v 17 But let him that reioyceth, reioyce in the Lord.
\v 18 For hee that praiseth himselfe, is not alowed, but he whome the Lord praiseth.