\c 43
\p
\v 1 But nowe thus sayeth the Lord, that created thee, O Iaakob: and hee that formed thee, O Israel, Feare not: for I haue redeemed thee: I haue called thee by thy name, thou art mine.
\v 2 When thou passest through the waters, I wil be with thee, and through the floods, that they doe not ouerflowe thee. When thou walkest through the very fire, thou shalt not be burnt, neither shall the flame kindle vpon thee.
\v 3 For I am the Lord thy God, the holy one of Israel, thy Sauiour: I gaue Egypt for thy ransome, Ethiopia, and Seba for thee.
\v 4 Because thou wast precious in my sight, and thou wast honourable, and I loued thee, therefore will I giue man for thee, and people for thy sake.
\v 5 Feare not, for I am with thee: I will bring thy seede from the East, and gather thee from the West.
\v 6 I will say to the North, Giue: and to the South, Keepe not backe: bring my sonnes from farre, and my daughters from the ends of the earth.
\v 7 Euery one shall be called by my Name: for I created him for my glorie, formed him and made him.
\v 8 I will bring foorth the blinde people, and they shall haue eyes, and the deafe, and they shall haue eares.
\v 9 Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the people be assembled: who among them can declare this and shewe vs former things? let them bring foorth their witnesses, that they may be iustified: but let them heare, and say, It is truth.
\v 10 You are my witnesses, saith the Lord, and my seruant, whom I haue chosen: therefore yee shall knowe and beleeue me and yee shall vnderstand that I am: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.
\v 11 I, euen I am the Lord, and beside me there is no Sauiour.
\v 12 I haue declared, and I haue saued, and I haue shewed, when there was no strange god among you: therefore you are my witnesses, sayeth the Lord, that I am God.
\v 13 Yea, before the day was, I am, and there is none that can deliuer out of mine hand: I will doe it, and who shall let it?
\v 14 Thus sayeth the Lord your redeemer, the holy one of Israel, For your sake I haue sent to Babel, and brought it downe: they are all fugitiues, and the Chaldeans crie in the shippes.
\v 15 I am the Lord your holy one, the creator of Israel, your King.
\v 16 Thus sayeth the Lord which maketh a way in the Sea, and a path in the mighty waters.
\v 17 When hee bringeth out the charet and horse, the armie and the power lie together, and shall not rise: they are extinct, and quenched as towe.
\v 18 Remember yee not the former things, neither regard the things of olde.
\v 19 Behold, I do a new thing: now shall it come foorth: shall you not knowe it? I wil euen make a way in the desert, and floods in the wildernesse.
\v 20 The wilde beastes shall honour mee, the dragons and the ostriches, because I gaue water in the desert, and floods in the wildernesse to giue drinke to my people, euen to mine elect.
\v 21 This people haue I formed for my selfe: they shall shewe foorth my praise.
\v 22 And thou hast not called vpon mee, O Iaakob, but thou hast wearied me, O Israel.
\v 23 Thou hast not brought me the sheepe of thy burnt offrings, neither hast thou honoured me with thy sacrifices. I haue not caused thee to serue with an offring, nor wearied thee with incense.
\v 24 Thou boughtest mee no sweete sauour with money, neither hast thou made mee drunke with the fatte of thy sacrifices, but thou hast made mee to serue with thy sinnes, and wearied mee with thine iniquities.
\v 25 I, euen I am he that putteth away thine iniquities for mine owne sake, and will not remember thy sinnes.
\v 26 Put me in remembrance: let vs be iudged together: count thou that thou maist be iustified.
\v 27 Thy first father hath sinned, and thy teachers haue transgressed against me.
\v 28 Therefore I haue prophaned the rulers of the Sanctuarie, and haue made Iaakob a curse, and Israel a reproche.