\c 6
\p
\v 1 And it came to passe on a second solemne Sabbath, that hee went through the corne fieldes, and his disciples plucked the eares of corne, and did eate, and rub them in their hands.
\v 2 And certaine of the Pharises sayde vnto them, Why doe ye that which is not lawfull to doe on the Sabbath dayes?
\v 3 Then Iesus answered them, and said, Haue ye not read this, that Dauid did when he himselfe was an hungred, and they which were with him,
\v 4 Howe he went into the house of God, and tooke, and ate the shewbread, and gaue also to them which were with him, which was not lawful to eate, but for the Priests onely?
\v 5 And he sayd vnto them, The Sonne of man is Lord also of the Sabbath day.
\v 6 It came to passe also on another Sabbath, that hee entred into the Synagogue, and taught, and there was a man, whose right hand was dryed vp.
\v 7 And the Scribes and Pharises watched him, whether he would heale on the Sabbath day, that they might finde an accusation against him.
\v 8 But he knew their thoughts, and sayd to the man which had the withered hand, Arise, and stand vp in the middes. And hee arose, and stoode vp.
\v 9 Then sayd Iesus vnto them, I will aske you a question, Whether is it lawfull on the Sabbath dayes to doe good, or to doe euill? to saue life, or to destroy?
\v 10 And he behelde them all in compasse, and sayd vnto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he did so, and his hand was restored againe, as whole as the other.
\v 11 Then they were filled full of madnes, and communed one with another, what they might doe to Iesus.
\v 12 And it came to passe in those dayes, that he went into a mountaine to praye, and spent the night in prayer to God.
\v 13 And when it was day, he called his disciples, and of them he chose twelue which also he called Apostles.
\v 14 (Simon whome he named also Peter, and Andrew his brother, Iames and Iohn, Philippe and Bartlemewe:
\v 15 Matthewe and Thomas: Iames the sonne of Alpheus, and Simon called Zelous,
\v 16 Iudas Iames brother, and Iudas Iscariot, which also was the traitour.)
\v 17 Then he came downe with them, and stood in a plaine place, with the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Iudea, and Hierusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyrus and Sidon, which came to heare him, and to be healed of their diseases:
\v 18 And they that were vexed with foule spirits, and they were healed.
\v 19 And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went vertue out of him, and healed them all.
\v 20 And hee lifted vp his eyes vpon his disciples, and sayd, Blessed be ye poore: for yours is the kingdome of God.
\v 21 Blessed are ye that hunger nowe: for ye shalbe satisfied: blessed are ye that weepe now: for ye shall laugh.
\v 22 Blessed are ye when men hate you, and when they separate you, and reuile you, and put out your name as euill, for the Sonne of mans sake.
\v 23 Reioyce ye in that day, and be glad: for beholde, your reward is great in heauen: for after this maner their fathers did to the Prophets.
\v 24 But wo be to you that are rich: for ye haue receiued your consolation.
\v 25 Wo be to you that are full: for ye shall hunger. Wo be to you that now laugh: for ye shall wayle and weepe.
\v 26 Wo be to you when all men speake well of you: for so did their fathers to the false prophets.
\v 27 But I say vnto you which heare, Loue your enemies: doe well to them which hate you.
\v 28 Blesse them that curse you, and pray for them which hurt you.
\v 29 And vnto him that smiteth thee on ye one cheeke, offer also the other: and him that taketh away thy cloke, forbid not to take thy coate also.
\v 30 Giue to euery man that asketh of thee: and of him that taketh away the things that be thine, aske them not againe.
\v 31 And as ye would that men should doe to you, so doe ye to them likewise.
\v 32 For if yee loue them which loue you, what thanke shall ye haue? for euen the sinners loue those that loue them.
\v 33 And if ye do good for them which do good for you, what thanke shall ye haue? for euen the sinners doe the same.
\v 34 And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receiue, what thanke shall yee haue? for euen the sinners lend to sinners, to receiue the like.
\v 35 Wherefore loue ye your enemies, and doe good, and lend, looking for nothing againe, and your rewarde shalbe great, and ye shalbe the children of the most High: for he is kinde vnto the vnkinde, and to the euill.
\v 36 Be ye therefore mercifull, as your Father also is mercifull.
\v 37 Iudge not, and ye shall not be iudged: condemne not, and ye shall not bee condemned: forgiue, and ye shalbe forgiuen.
\v 38 Giue, and it shalbe giuen vnto you: a good measure, pressed downe, shaken together and running ouer shall men giue into your bosome: for with what measure ye mete, with the same shall men mete to you againe.
\v 39 And he spake a parable vnto them, Can the blinde leade the blinde? shall they not both fall into the ditche?
\v 40 The disciple is not aboue his master: but whosoeuer will be a perfect disciple, shall bee as his master.
\v 41 And why seest thou a mote in thy brothers eye, and considerest not the beame that is in thine owne eye?
\v 42 Either howe canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou seest not the beame that is in thine owne eye? Hypocrite, cast out the beame out of thine owne eye first, and then shalt thou see, perfectly to pull out the mote that is in thy brothers eye.
\v 43 For it is not a good tree that bringeth foorth euill fruite: neither an euill tree, that bringeth foorth good fruite.
\v 44 For euery tree is knowen by his owne fruite: for neither of thornes gather men figges, nor of bushes gather they grapes.
\v 45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth foorth good, and an euill man out of the euill treasure of his heart bringeth foorth euill: for of the aboundance of the heart his mouth speaketh.
\v 46 But why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I speake?
\v 47 Whosoeuer commeth to mee, and heareth my wordes, and doeth the same, I will shewe you to whome he is like:
\v 48 He is like a man which built an house, and digged deepe, and layde the fundation on a rocke: and when the waters arose, the flood beat vpon that house, and coulde not shake it: for it was grounded vpon a rocke.
\v 49 But hee that heareth and doeth not, is like a man that built an house vpon the earth without foundation, against which the flood did beate, and it fell by and by: and the fall of that house was great.