\c 14
\p
\v 1 Let not your heart be troubled: ye beleeue in God, beleeue also in me.
\v 2 In my Fathers house are many dwelling places: if it were not so, I would haue tolde you: I go to prepare a place for you.
\v 3 And if I go to prepare a place for you, I wil come againe, and receiue you vnto my selfe, that where I am, there may ye be also.
\v 4 And whither I go, ye know, and the way ye knowe.
\v 5 Thomas sayd vnto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest: how can we then know ye way?
\v 6 Iesus sayd vnto him, I am that Way, and that Trueth, and that Life. No man commeth vnto the Father, but by me.
\v 7 If ye had knowen mee, ye should haue knowen my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and haue seene him.
\v 8 Philippe sayd vnto him, Lord, shewe vs thy Father, and it sufficeth vs.
\v 9 Iesus sayd vnto him, I haue bene so long time with you, and hast thou not knowen mee, Philippe? he that hath seene me, hath seene my Father: how then sayest thou, Shewe vs thy Father?
\v 10 Beleeuest thou not, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The wordes that I speake vnto you, I speake not of my selfe: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the workes.
\v 11 Beleeue me, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me: at the least, beleeue me for the very workes sake.
\v 12 Verely, verely I say vnto you, he that beleeueth in me, the workes that I doe, hee shall doe also, and greater then these shall he doe: for I goe vnto my Father.
\v 13 And whatsoeuer ye aske in my Name, that will I doe, that the Father may be glorified in the Sonne.
\v 14 If ye shall aske any thing in my Name, I will doe it.
\v 15 If ye loue me, keepe my comandements,
\v 16 And I wil pray the Father, and he shall giue you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for euer,
\v 17 Euen the Spirit of trueth, whome the world can not receiue, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye knowe him: for he dwelleth with you, and shalbe in you.
\v 18 I will not leaue you fatherles: but I will come to you.
\v 19 Yet a litle while, and the world shall see me no more, but ye shall see me: because I liue, ye shall liue also.
\v 20 At that day shall ye knowe that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
\v 21 He that hath my commandements, and keepeth them, is he that loueth me: and he that loueth me, shall be loued of my Father: and I will loue him, and wil shewe mine owne selfe to him.
\v 22 Iudas sayd vnto him (not Iscariot) Lord, what is the cause that thou wilt shewe thy selfe vnto vs, and not vnto the world?
\v 23 Iesus answered, and sayd vnto him, If any man loue me, he will keepe my worde, and my Father will loue him, and we wil come vnto him, and wil dwell with him.
\v 24 He that loueth me not, keepeth not my wordes, and the worde which ye heare, is not mine, but the Fathers which sent me.
\v 25 These things haue I spoken vnto you, being present with you.
\v 26 But the Comforter, which is the holy Ghost, whom the Father wil send in my Name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, which I haue tolde you.
\v 27 Peace I leaue with you: my peace I giue vnto you: not as the worlde giueth, giue I vnto you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor feare.
\v 28 Ye haue heard howe I saide vnto you, I goe away, and will come vnto you. If ye loued me, ye would verely reioyce, because I said, I goe vnto the Father: for the Father is greater then I.
\v 29 And nowe haue I spoken vnto you, before it come, that when it is come to passe, ye might beleeue.
\v 30 Hereafter will I not speake many things vnto you: for the prince of this world commeth, and hath nought in me.
\v 31 But it is that the world may knowe that I loue my Father: and as the Father hath commanded me, so I doe. Arise, let vs goe hence.