\c 3
\p
\v 1 Then we turned, and went vp by the way of Bashan: and Og King of Bashan came out against vs, he, and all his people to fight at Edrei.
\v 2 And the Lord sayde vnto me, Feare him not, for I will deliuer him, and all his people, and his land into thine hand, and thou shalt doe vnto him as thou diddest vnto Sihon King of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon.
\v 3 So the Lord our God deliuered also vnto our hand, Og the King of Bashan, and all his people: and we smote him, vntill none was left him aliue,
\v 4 And we tooke all his cities the same time, neither was there a citie which we tooke not from them, euen three score cities, and all ye countrey of Argob, the kingdome of Og in Bashan.
\v 5 All these cities were fenced with hie walles, gates and barres, beside vnwalled townes a great many.
\v 6 And we ouerthrewe them, as we did vnto Sihon King of Heshbon, destroying euery citie, with men, women, and children.
\v 7 But all the cattell and the spoyle of the cities we tooke for our selues.
\v 8 Thus we tooke at that time out of the hand of two Kings of the Amorites, the land that was on this side Iorden from the riuer of Arnon vnto mount Hermon:
\v 9 (Which Hermon the Sidonians call Shirion, but the Amorites call it Shenir)
\v 10 All the cities of the plaine, and all Gilead, and all Bashan vnto Salchah, and Edrei, cities of the kingdome of Og in Bashan.
\v 11 For onely Og King of Bashan remained of the remnant of the gyants, whose bed was a bed of yron: is it not at Rabbath among the children of Ammon? the length thereof is nine cubites, and foure cubites the breadth of it, after the cubite of a man.
\v 12 And this land which we possessed at that time, from Aroer, which is by the riuer of Arnon, and halfe mount Gilead, and the cities thereof, gaue I vnto the Reubenites and Gadites.
\v 13 And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdome of Og, gaue I vnto the halfe tribe of Manasseh: euen all the countrey of Argob with all Bashan, which is called, The land of gyants.
\v 14 Iair the sonne of Manasseh tooke all the countrey of Argob, vnto the coastes of Geshuri, and of Maachathi: and called them after his owne name, Bashan, Hauoth Iair vnto this day.
\v 15 And I gaue part of Gilead vnto Machir.
\v 16 And vnto the Reubenites and Gadites I gaue the rest of Gilead, and vnto the riuer of Arnon, halfe the riuer and the borders, euen vnto the riuer Iabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon:
\v 17 The plaine also and Iorden, and the borders from Chinneereth euen vnto the Sea of the plaine, to wit, the salt Sea vnder the springs of Pisgah Eastwarde.
\v 18 And I commanded you the same time, saying, The Lord your God hath giuen you this lande to possesse it: ye shall goe ouer armed before your brethren the children of Israel, all men of warre.
\v 19 Your wiues onely, and your children, and your cattel (for I know that ye haue much cattel) shall abide in your cities, which I haue giuen you,
\v 20 Vntill the Lord haue giuen rest vnto your brethren as vnto you, and that they also possesse the lande, which the Lord your God hath giuen them beyond Iorden: then shall ye returne euery man vnto his possession, which I haue giuen you.
\v 21 And I charged Ioshua the same time, saying, Thine eyes haue seene all that the Lord your God hath done vnto these two Kings: so shall the Lord doe vnto all the kingdomes whither thou goest.
\v 22 Ye shall not feare them: for the Lord your God, he shall fight for you.
\v 23 And I besought the Lord the same time, saying,
\v 24 O Lord God, thou hast begunne to shewe thy seruant thy greatnesse and thy mightie hande: for where is there a God in heauen or in earth, that can do like thy workes, and like thy power?
\v 25 I pray thee let me go ouer and see the good land that is beyond Iorden, that goodly mountaine, and Lebanon.
\v 26 But the Lord was angrie with me for your sakes, and would not heare me: and the Lord said vnto me, Let it suffice thee, speake no more vnto me of this matter.
\v 27 Get thee vp into the top of Pisgah, and lift vp thine eyes Westward, and Northwarde, and Southward, and Eastward, and behold it with thine eyes, for thou shalt not goe ouer this Iorden:
\v 28 But charge Ioshua, and incourage him, and bolden him: for hee shall goe before this people, and he shall deuide for inheritance vnto them, the land which thou shalt see.
\v 29 So wee abode in the valley ouer against Beth-Peor.