\c 36
\p
\v 1 Nowe these are the generations of Esau, which is Edom.
\v 2 Esau tooke his wiues of the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon an Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon an Hiuite,
\v 3 And tooke Basemath Ishmaels daughter, sister of Nebaioth.
\v 4 And Adah bare vnto Esau, Eliphaz: and Basemath bare Reuel.
\v 5 Also Aholibamah bare Ieush, and Iaalam, and Korah: these are the sonnes of Esau which were borne to him in the land of Canaan.
\v 6 So Esau tooke his wiues and his sonnes, and his daughters, and all the soules of his house, and his flocks, and all his cattell, and all his substance, which he had gotten in the land of Canaan, and went into an other countrey from his brother Iaakob.
\v 7 For their riches were so great, that they could not dwell together, and the lande, wherein they were strangers, coulde not receiue them because of their flockes.
\v 8 Therefore dwelt Esau in mount Seir: this Esau is Edom.
\v 9 So these are the generations of Esau father of Edom in mount Seir.
\v 10 These are the names of Esaus sonnes: Eliphaz, the sonne of Adah, the wife of Esau, and Reuel the sonne of Bashemath, the wife of Esau.
\v 11 And the sonnes of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.
\v 12 And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esaus sonne, and bare vnto Eliphaz, Amalek: these be the sonnes of Adah Esaus wife.
\v 13 And these are the sonnes of Reuel: Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sonnes of Bashemath Esaus wife.
\v 14 And these were the sonnes of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon Esaus wife: for she bare vnto Esau, Ieush, and Iaalam, and Korah.
\v 15 These were Dukes of the sonnes of Esau: the sonnes of Eliphaz, the first borne of Esau: Duke Teman, Duke Omar, Duke Zepho, Duke Kenaz,
\v 16 Duke Korah, Duke Gatam, Duke Amalek: these are the Dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom: these were the sonnes of Adah.
\v 17 And these are the sonnes of Reuel Esaus sonne: Duke Nahath, Duke Zerah, Duke Shammah, Duke Mizzah: these are the Dukes that came of Reuel in the land of Edom: these are the sonnes of Bashemath Esaus wife.
\v 18 Likewise these were the sonnes of Aholibamah Esaus wife: Duke Ieush, Duke Iaalam, Duke Korah: these Dukes came of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah Esaus wife.
\v 19 These are the children of Esau, and these are the Dukes of them: This Esau is Edom.
\v 20 These are the sonnes of Seir the Horite, which inhabited the lande before, Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah.
\v 21 And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these are the Dukes of the Horites, the sonnes of Seir in the land of Edom.
\v 22 And the sonnes of Lotan were, Hori and Hemam, and Lotans sister was Timna.
\v 23 And the sonnes of Shobal were these: Aluan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
\v 24 And these are the sonnes of Zibeon: Both Aiah, and Anah: this was Anah that founde mules in the wildernesse, as he fedde his father Zibeons asses.
\v 25 And the children of Anah were these: Dishon and Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah.
\v 26 Also these are the sonnes of Dishan: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
\v 27 The sonnes of Ezer are these: Bilhan, and Zaauan, and Akan.
\v 28 The sonnes of Dishan are these: Vz, and Aran.
\v 29 These are the Dukes of the Horites: Duke Lotan, Duke Shobal, Duke Zibeon, Duke Anah,
\v 30 Duke Dishon, Duke Ezer, Duke Dishan: these bee the Dukes of the Horites, after their Dukedomes in the land of Seir.
\v 31 And these are the Kings that reigned in the lande of Edom, before there reigned any King ouer the children of Israel.
\v 32 Then Bela the sonne of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his citie was Dinhabah.
\v 33 And when Bela dyed, Iobab the sonne of Zerah of Bozra reigned in his steade.
\v 34 When Iobab also was dead, Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his steade.
\v 35 And after the death of Husham, Hadad the sonne of Bedad, which slewe Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his steade, and the name of his citie was Auith.
\v 36 When Hadad was dead, then Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his steade.
\v 37 When Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the riuer, reigned in his steade.
\v 38 When Shaul dyed, Baal-hanan the sonne of Achbor reigned in his steade.
\v 39 And after the death of Baal-hanan the sonne of Achbor, Hadad reigned in his stead, and the name of his citie was Pau: and his wiues name Mehetabel the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
\v 40 Then these are the names of the Dukes of Esau according to their families, their places and by their names: Duke Timna, Duke Aluah, Duke Ietheth,
\v 41 Duke Aholibamah, Duke Elah, Duke Pinon,
\v 42 Duke Kenaz, Duke Teman, Duke Mibzar,
\v 43 Duke Magdiel, Duke Iram: these bee the Dukes of Edom, according to their habitations, in the lande of their inheritance. This Esau is the father of Edom.