\c 3
\p
\v 1 This knowe also, that in the last dayes shall come perilous times.
\v 2 For men shalbe louers of their owne selues, couetous, boasters, proud, cursed speakers, disobedient to parents, vnthankefull, vnholy,
\v 3 Without naturall affection, truce breakers, false accusers, intemperate, fierce, no louers at all of them which are good,
\v 4 Traitours, headie, high minded, louers of pleasures more then louers of God,
\v 5 Hauing a shewe of godlinesse, but haue denied the power thereof: turne away therefore from such.
\v 6 For of this sort are they which creepe into houses, and leade captiue simple women laden with sinnes, and led with diuers lustes,
\v 7 Which women are euer learning, and are neuer able to come to the acknowledging of the trueth.
\v 8 And as Iannes and Iambres withstoode Moses, so doe these also resist the trueth, men of corrupt mindes, reprobate concerning the faith.
\v 9 But they shall preuaile no longer: for their madnesse shalbe euident vnto all men, as theirs also was.
\v 10 But thou hast fully knowen my doctrine, maner of liuing, purpose, faith, long suffering, loue, patience,
\v 11 Persecutions, and afflictions which came vnto me at Antiochia, at Iconium, and at Lystri, which persecutions I suffered: but from them all the Lord deliuered me.
\v 12 Yea, and all that will liue godly in Christ Iesus, shall suffer persecution.
\v 13 But the euill men and deceiuers, shall waxe worse and worse, deceiuing, and being deceiued.
\v 14 But continue thou in the thinges which thou hast learned, and which are committed vnto thee, knowing of who thou hast learned them:
\v 15 And that thou hast knowen the holy Scriptures of a childe, which are able to make thee wise vnto saluation, through the faith which is in Christ Iesus.
\v 16 For the whole Scripture is giuen by inspiration of God, and is profitable to teache, to conuince, to correct, and to instruct in righteousnesse,
\v 17 That the man of God may be absolute, being made perfect vnto all good workes.