\c 2
\p
\v 1 Thou therefore, my sonne, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Iesus.
\v 2 And what things thou hast heard of me, by many witnesses, ye same deliuer to faithfull men, which shalbe able to teache other also.
\v 3 Thou therefore suffer affliction as a good souldier of Iesus Christ.
\v 4 No man that warreth, entangleth himselfe with the affaires of this life, because he woulde please him that hath chosen him to be a souldier.
\v 5 And if any man also striue for a Masterie, he is not crowned, except he striue as he ought to doe.
\v 6 The husbandman must labour before he receiue the fruites.
\v 7 Consider what I say: and the Lord giue thee vnderstanding in all things:
\v 8 Remember that Iesus Christ, made of the seede of Dauid, was raysed againe from the dead according to my Gospel,
\v 9 Wherein I suffer trouble as an euill doer, euen vnto bondes: but the worde of God is not bounde.
\v 10 Therefore I suffer all things, for the elects sake, that they might also obtaine the saluation which is in Christ Iesus, with eternall glorie.
\v 11 It is a true saying, For if we be dead together with him, we also shall liue together with him.
\v 12 If we suffer, we shall also reigne together with him: if we denie him, he also will denie vs.
\v 13 If we beleeue not, yet abideth he faithfull: he cannot denie himselfe.
\v 14 Of these things put them in remembrance, and protest before the Lord, that they striue not about wordes, which is to no profit, but to the peruerting of the hearers.
\v 15 Studie to shewe thy selfe approued vnto God, a workeman that needeth not to be ashamed, diuiding the worde of trueth aright.
\v 16 Stay prophane, and vaine babblings: for they shall encrease vnto more vngodlinesse.
\v 17 And their worde shall fret as a canker: of which sort is Hymeneus and Philetus,
\v 18 Which as concerning ye trueth haue erred from the marke, saying that the resurrection is past alreadie, and do destroy the faith of certaine.
\v 19 But the foundation of God remaineth sure, and hath this seale, The Lord knoweth who are his: and, Let euery one that calleth on the Name of Christ, depart from iniquitie.
\v 20 Notwithstanding in a great house are not onely vessels of gold and of siluer, but also of wood and of earth, and some for honour, and some vnto dishonour.
\v 21 If any man therefore purge him selfe from these, he shalbe a vessell vnto honour, sanctified, and meete for the Lord, and prepared vnto euery good worke.
\v 22 Flee also from the lustes of youth, and follow after righteousnes, faith, loue, and peace, with them that call on the Lord with pure heart,
\v 23 And put away foolish and vnlearned questions, knowing that they ingender strife.
\v 24 But the seruant of ye Lord must not striue, but must be gentle toward all men, apt to teache, suffering the euill,
\v 25 Instructing them with meekenesse that are contrary minded, prouing if God at any time will giue them repentance, that they may acknowledge the trueth,
\v 26 And come to amendment out of that snare of the deuil, of whom they are taken prisoners, to doe his will.