\c 13
\p
\v 1 Nowe before the feast of the Passeouer, when Iesus knewe that his houre was come, that he should depart out of this world vnto the Father, forasmuch as he loued his owne which were in the world, vnto the end he loued them.
\v 2 And when supper was done (and that the deuill had now put in the heart of Iudas Iscariot, Simons sonne, to betray him)
\v 3 Iesus knowing that the Father had giuen all things into his hands, and that he was come forth from God, and went to God,
\v 4 He riseth from supper, and layeth aside his vpper garments, and tooke a towel, and girded himselfe.
\v 5 After that, hee powred water into a basen, and began to wash the disciples feete, and to wipe them with the towell, wherewith he was girded.
\v 6 Then came he to Simon Peter, who sayd to him, Lord, doest thou wash my feete?
\v 7 Iesus answered and sayd vnto him, What I doe, thou knowest not nowe: but thou shalt knowe it hereafter.
\v 8 Peter said vnto him, Thou shalt neuer wash my feete. Iesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou shalt haue no part with me.
\v 9 Simon Peter sayd vnto him, Lord, not my feete onely, but also the hands and the head.
\v 10 Iesus sayd to him, He that is washed, needeth not, saue to wash his feete, but is cleane euery whit: and ye are cleane, but not all.
\v 11 For hee knewe who should betray him: therefore sayd he, Ye are not all cleane.
\v 12 So after he had washed their feete, and had taken his garments, and was set downe againe, he sayd vnto them, Knowe ye what I haue done to you?
\v 13 Ye call me Master, and Lord, and ye say well: for so am I.
\v 14 If I then your Lord, and Master, haue washed your feete, ye also ought to wash one an others feete.
\v 15 For I haue giuen you an example, that ye should doe, euen as I haue done to you.
\v 16 Verely, verely I say vnto you, The seruant is not greater then his master, neither the ambassadour greater then he that sent him.
\v 17 If ye know these things, blessed are ye, if ye doe them.
\v 18 I speake not of you all: I know whom I haue chosen: but it is that the Scripture might be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me, hath lift vp his heele against me.
\v 19 From henceforth tell I you before it come, that when it is come to passe, ye might beleeue that I am he.
\v 20 Verely, verely I say vnto you, If I send any, he that receiueth him, receiueth me, and hee that receiueth me, receiueth him that sent me.
\v 21 When Iesus had sayd these things, he was troubled in the Spirit, and testified, and said, Verely, verely I say vnto you, that one of you shall betray me.
\v 22 Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake.
\v 23 Nowe there was one of his disciples, which leaned on Iesus bosome, whom Iesus loued.
\v 24 To him beckened therefore Simon Peter, that he should aske who it was of whom he spake.
\v 25 He then, as he leaned on Iesus breast, saide vnto him, Lord, who is it?
\v 26 Iesus answered, He it is, to whome I shall giue a soppe, when I haue dipt it: and hee wet a soppe, and gaue it to Iudas Iscariot, Simons sonne.
\v 27 And after the soppe, Satan entred into him. Then sayd Iesus vnto him, That thou doest, doe quickly.
\v 28 But none of them that were at table, knew, for what cause he spake it vnto him.
\v 29 For some of them thought because Iudas had the bag, that Iesus had sayd vnto him, Buy those things that we haue neede of against ye feast: or that he should giue some thing to the poore.
\v 30 Assoone then as he had receiued the soppe, he went immediately out, and it was night.
\v 31 When hee was gone out, Iesus sayd, Nowe is the Sonne of man glorified, and God is glorified in him.
\v 32 If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorifie him in himselfe, and shall straightway glorifie him.
\v 33 Litle children, yet a litle while am I with you: ye shall seeke me, but as I sayde vnto the Iewes, Whither I goe, can ye not come: also to you say I nowe,
\v 34 A newe commandement giue I vnto you, that ye loue one another: as I haue loued you, that ye also loue one another.
\v 35 By this shall all men knowe that ye are my disciples, if ye haue loue one to another.
\v 36 Simon Peter said vnto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Iesus answered him, Whither I goe, thou canst not follow me nowe: but thou shalt follow me afterward.
\v 37 Peter sayd vnto him, Lord, why can I not follow thee now? I will lay downe my life for thy sake.
\v 38 Iesus answered him, Wilt thou lay downe thy life for my sake? Verely, verely I say vnto thee, The cocke shall not crowe, till thou haue denied me thrise.