\c 14
\p
\v 1 At that time Herod the Tetrarche heard of the fame of Iesus,
\v 2 And sayde vnto his seruaunts, This is that Iohn Baptist, hee is risen againe from the deade, and therefore great woorkes are wrought by him.
\v 3 For Herod had taken Iohn, and bounde him, and put him in prison for Herodias sake, his brother Philips wife.
\v 4 For Iohn saide vnto him, It is not lawfull for thee to haue her.
\v 5 And when hee woulde haue put him to death, hee feared the multitude, because they counted him as a Prophet.
\v 6 But when Herods birth day was kept, the daughter of Herodias daunced before them, and pleased Herod.
\v 7 Wherefore he promised with an othe, that he would giue her whatsoeuer she would aske.
\v 8 And shee being before instructed of her mother, sayde, Giue mee here Iohn Baptists head in a platter.
\v 9 And the King was sorie: neuerthelesse because of the othe, and them that sate with him at the table, he commanded it to be giuen her,
\v 10 And sent, and beheaded Iohn in the prison.
\v 11 And his head was brought in a platter, and giuen to the maide, and shee brought it vnto her mother.
\v 12 And his disciples came, and tooke vp the bodie, and buried it, and went, and tolde Iesus.
\v 13 And when Iesus heard it, hee departed thence by shippe into a desert place apart. And when the multitude had heard it, they followed him on foote out of the cities.
\v 14 And Iesus went foorth and sawe a great multitude, and was mooued with compassion toward them, and he healed their sicke.
\v 15 And when euen was come, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desart place, and the time is alreadie past: let the multitude depart, that they may goe into the townes, and bye them vitailes.
\v 16 But Iesus saide to them, They haue no neede to goe away: giue yee them to eate.
\v 17 Then saide they vnto him, Wee haue here but fiue loaues, and two fishes.
\v 18 And he saide, Bring them hither to me.
\v 19 And hee commanded the multitude to sit downe on the grasse, and tooke the fiue loaues and the two fishes, and looked vp to heauen and blessed, and brake, and gaue the loaues to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
\v 20 And they did all eate, and were sufficed, and they tooke vp of the fragments that remained, twelue baskets full.
\v 21 And they that had eaten, were about fiue thousande men, beside women and litle children.
\v 22 And straightway Iesus compelled his disciples to enter into a shippe, and to goe ouer before him, while he sent the multitude away.
\v 23 And assoone as hee had sent the multitude away, he went vp into a moutaine alone to pray: and when the euening was come, hee was there alone.
\v 24 And the shippe was nowe in the middes of the sea, and was tossed with waues: for it was a contrarie winde.
\v 25 And in the fourth watch of the night, Iesus went vnto them, walking on the sea.
\v 26 And when his disciples sawe him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit, and cried out for feare.
\v 27 But straight way Iesus spake vnto them, saying, Be of good comfort, It is I: be not afraide.
\v 28 Then Peter answered him, and saide, Master, if it be thou, bid me come vnto thee on the water.
\v 29 And he saide, Come. And when Peter was come downe out of the shippe, he walked on the water, to goe to Iesus.
\v 30 But when he sawe a mightie winde, he was afraide: and as he began to sinke, he cried, saying, Master, saue me.
\v 31 So immediatly Iesus stretched foorth his hande, and caught him, and saide to him, O thou of litle faith, wherefore diddest thou doubt?
\v 32 And assoone as they were come into the ship, the winde ceased.
\v 33 Then they that were in the ship, came and worshipped him, saying, Of a trueth thou art the Sonne of God.
\v 34 And when they were come ouer, they came into the land of Gennezaret.
\v 35 And when the men of that place knewe him, they sent out into all that countrey rounde about, and brought vnto him all that were sicke,
\v 36 And besought him, that they might touch the hemme of his garment onely: and as many as touched it, were made whole.