\c 2
\p
\v 1 And the thirde day, was there a mariage in Cana a towne of Galile, and the mother of Iesus was there.
\v 2 And Iesus was called also, and his disciples vnto the mariage.
\v 3 Nowe when the wine failed, the mother of Iesus saide vnto him, They haue no wine.
\v 4 Iesus saide vnto her, Woman, what haue I to doe with thee? mine houre is not yet come.
\v 5 His mother saide vnto the seruants, Whatsoeuer he sayeth vnto you, doe it.
\v 6 And there were set there, sixe waterpots of stone, after the maner of the purifying of the Iewes, conteining two or three firkins a piece.
\v 7 And Iesus sayde vnto them, Fill the waterpots with water. Then they filled them vp to the brim.
\v 8 Then he sayde vnto them, Draw out nowe and beare vnto the gouernour of the feast. So they bare it.
\v 9 Nowe when the gouernour of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, (for he knewe not whence it was: but the seruants, which drewe the water, knewe) the gouernour of ye feast called the bridegrome,
\v 10 And saide vnto him, All men at the beginning set foorth good wine, and when men haue well drunke, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept backe the good wine vntill nowe.
\v 11 This beginning of miracles did Iesus in Cana a towne of Galile, and shewed forth his glorie: and his disciples beleeued on him.
\v 12 After that, he went downe into Capernaum, he and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: but they continued not many daies there.
\v 13 For the Iewes Passeouer was at hande. Therefore Iesus went vp to Hierusalem.
\v 14 And he found in the Temple those that sold oxen, and sheepe, and doues, and changers of money, sitting there.
\v 15 Then hee made a scourge of small cordes, and draue them all out of the Temple with the sheepe and oxen, and powred out the changers money, and ouerthrewe the tables,
\v 16 And said vnto them that solde doues, Take these things hence: make not my fathers house, an house of marchandise.
\v 17 And his disciples remembred, that it was written, The zeale of thine house hath eaten me vp.
\v 18 Then answered the Iewes, and saide vnto him, What signe shewest thou vnto vs, that thou doest these things?
\v 19 Iesus answered, and said vnto them, Destroy this Temple, and in three daies I will raise it vp againe.
\v 20 Then said the Iewes, Fourtie and sixe yeeres was this Temple a building, and wilt thou reare it vp in three daies?
\v 21 But he spake of the temple of his bodie.
\v 22 Assoone therefore as he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembred that hee thus sayde vnto them: and they beleeued the Scripture, and the worde which Iesus had saide.
\v 23 Nowe when hee was at Hierusalem at the Passeouer in the feast, many beleeued in his Name, when they sawe his miracles which he did.
\v 24 But Iesus did not commit him selfe vnto them, because he knewe them all,
\v 25 And had no neede that any should testifie of man: for he knewe what was in man.