\c 8
\p
\v 1 Now then there is no condemnation to them that are in Christ Iesus, which walke not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
\v 2 For the Lawe of the Spirite of life, which is in Christ Iesus, hath freed mee from the lawe of sinne and of death.
\v 3 For (that that was impossible to ye Lawe, in as much as it was weake, because of ye flesh) God sending his owne Sonne, in ye similitude of sinful flesh, and for sinne, condened sinne in the flesh,
\v 4 That that righteousnes of the Law might be fulfilled in vs, which walke not after ye flesh, but after the Spirit.
\v 5 For they that are after the flesh, sauour the things of the flesh: but they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit.
\v 6 For the wisedome of the flesh is death: but the wisedome of the Spirit is life and peace,
\v 7 Because the wisedome of the flesh is enimitie against God: for it is not subiect to the Lawe of God, neither in deede can be.
\v 8 So then they that are in the flesh, can not please God.
\v 9 Now ye are not in the flesh, but in ye Spirit, because ye spirit of God dwelleth in you: but if any man hath not ye Spirit of Christ, ye same is not his.
\v 10 And if Christ bee in you, the body is dead, because of sinne: but the Spirite is life for righteousnesse sake.
\v 11 But if the Spirit of him that raised vp Iesus from the dead, dwell in you, he that raised vp Christ from the dead, shall also quicken your mortall bodies, by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.
\v 12 Therefore brethren, wee are detters not to the flesh, to liue after the flesh:
\v 13 For if ye liue after the flesh, ye shall die: but if yee mortifie the deedes of the body by the Spirit, ye shall liue.
\v 14 For as many as are ledde by the Spirit of God, they are the sonnes of God.
\v 15 For ye haue not receiued the Spirit of bodage, to feare againe: but ye haue receiued the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba, Father.
\v 16 The same Spirit beareth witnesse with our spirit, that we are the children of God.
\v 17 If we be children, we are also heires, euen the heires of God, and heires annexed with Christ: if so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him.
\v 18 For I count that the afflictions of this present time are not worthy of the glory, which shalbe shewed vnto vs.
\v 19 For the feruent desire of the creature waiteth when the sonnes of God shalbe reueiled,
\v 20 Because the creature is subiect to vanitie, not of it owne will, but by reason of him, which hath subdued it vnder hope,
\v 21 Because the creature also shall be deliuered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious libertie of the sonnes of God.
\v 22 For we knowe that euery creature groneth with vs also, and trauaileth in paine together vnto this present.
\v 23 And not onely the creature, but we also which haue the first fruites of the Spirit, euen we doe sigh in our selues, waiting for the adoption, euen the redemption of our body.
\v 24 For we are saued by hope: but hope that is seene, is not hope: for how can a man hope for that which he seeth?
\v 25 But if we hope for that we see not, we doe with patience abide for it.
\v 26 Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we knowe not what to pray as wee ought: but the Spirit it selfe maketh request for vs with sighs, which cannot be expressed.
\v 27 But he that searcheth the heartes, knoweth what is the meaning of the Spirit: for he maketh request for ye Saints, according to the wil of God.
\v 28 Also we knowe that all thinges worke together for the best vnto them that loue God, euen to them that are called of his purpose.
\v 29 For those which hee knewe before, he also predestinate to bee made like to the image of his Sonne, that hee might be the first borne among many brethren.
\v 30 Moreouer whom he predestinate, them also he called, and whom he called, them also he iustified, and whom he iustified, them he also glorified.
\v 31 What shall we then say to these thinges? If God be on our side, who can be against vs?
\v 32 Who spared not his owne Sonne, but gaue him for vs all to death, how shall he not with him giue vs all things also?
\v 33 Who shall lay any thing to the charge of Gods chosen? it is God that iustifieth,
\v 34 Who shall condemne? it is Christ which is dead, yea, or rather, which is risen againe, who is also at the right hand of God, and maketh request also for vs.
\v 35 Who shall separate vs from the loue of Christ? shall tribulation or anguish, or persecution, or famine, or nakednesse, or perill, or sworde?
\v 36 As it is written, For thy sake are we killed all day long: we are counted as sheepe for the slaughter.
\v 37 Neuerthelesse, in all these thinges we are more then coquerours through him that loued vs.
\v 38 For I am perswaded that neither death, nor life, nor Angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
\v 39 Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shalbe able to separate vs from the loue of God, which is in Christ Iesus our Lord.