\c 25
\p
\v 1 Nowe Abraham had taken him another wife called Keturah,
\v 2 Which bare him Zimran, and Iokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
\v 3 And Iokshan begate Sheba, and Dedan: And the sonnes of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
\v 4 Also the sonnes of Midian were Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah all these were the sonnes of Keturah.
\v 5 And Abraham gaue all his goods to Izhak,
\v 6 But vnto the sonnes of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gaue giftes, and sent them away from Izhak his sonne (while he yet liued) Eastward to the East countrey.
\v 7 And this is the age of Abrahams life, which he liued, an hundreth seuentie and fiue yeere.
\v 8 Then Abraham yeelded the spirit, and died in a good age, an olde man, and of great yeeres, and was gathered to his people.
\v 9 And his sonnes, Izhak and Ishmael buryed him in the caue of Machpelah, in the fielde of Ephron sonne of Zohar the Hittite, before Mamre.
\v 10 Which fielde Abraham bought of the Hittites, where Abraham was buryed with Sarah his wife.
\v 11 And after the death of Abraham God blessed Izhak his sonne, and Izhak dwelt by Beer-lahai-roi.
\v 12 Nowe these are the generations of Ishmael Abrahams sonne, whome Hagar the Egyptian Sarahs handmayde bare vnto Abraham.
\v 13 And these are the names of the sonnes of Ishmael, name by name, according to their kinreds; the eldest sonne of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
\v 14 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
\v 15 Hadar, and Tema, Ietur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
\v 16 These are the sonnes of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their townes and by their castles: to wit, twelue princes of their nations.
\v 17 (And these are the yeeres of the life of Ishmael, an hundreth thirtie and seuen yeere, and he yeelded the spirit, and dyed, and was gathered vnto his people)
\v 18 And they dwelt from Hauilah vnto Shur, that is towardes Egypt, as thou goest to Asshur. Ishmael dwelt in the presence of all his brethren.
\v 19 Likewise these are the generations of Izhak Abrahams sonne Abraham begate Izhak,
\v 20 And Izhak was fourtie yeere olde, when he tooke Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramite of Padan Aram, and sister to Laban the Aramite.
\v 21 And Izhak prayed vuto the Lord for his wife, because she was barren: and the Lord was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceiued,
\v 22 But the children stroue together within her: therefore shee sayde, Seeing it is so, why am I thus? wherefore she went to aske the Lord.
\v 23 And the Lord sayd to her, Two nations are in thy wombe, and two maner of people shalbe diuided out of thy bowels, and the one people shall be mightier then the other, and the elder shall serue the yonger.
\v 24 Therefore when her time of deliuerance was fulfilled, behold, twinnes were in her wombe.
\v 25 So he that came out first was red, and he was all ouer as a rough garment, and they called his name Esau.
\v 26 And afterward came his brother out, and his hande helde Esau by the heele: therefore his name was called Iaakob. Nowe Izhak was threescore yeere olde when Rebekah bare them.
\v 27 And the boyes grew, and Esau was a cunning hunter, and liued in the fields: but Iaakob was a plaine man, and dwelt in tentes.
\v 28 And Izhak loued Esau, for venison was his meate, but Rebekah loued Iaakob.
\v 29 Nowe Iaakob sod pottage, and Esau came from the fielde and was wearie.
\v 30 Then Esau sayd to Iaakob, Let me eate, I pray thee, of that pottage so red, for I am wearie. Therefore was his name called Edom.
\v 31 And Iaakob sayd, Sell me euen nowe thy birthright.
\v 32 And Esau sayd, Lo, I am almost dead, what is then this birthright to me?
\v 33 Iaakob then said, Sweare to me euen now. And he sware to him, and solde his birthright vnto Iaakob.
\v 34 Then Iaakob gaue Esau bread and pottage of lentiles: and he did eate and drinke, and rose vp, and went his way: So Esau contemned his birthright.