\c 1
\p
\v 1 Nowe the Lord called Moses, and spake vnto him out of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and thou shalt say vnto them, If any of you offer a sacrifice vnto the Lord, ye shall offer your sacrifice of cattell, as of beeues and of the sheepe.
\v 3 If his sacrifice be a burnt offering of the heard, he shall offer a male without blemish, presenting him of his owne voluntarie will at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the Lord.
\v 4 And he shall put his hande vpon the head of the burnt offering, and it shalbe accepted to the Lord, to be his atonement.
\v 5 And he shall kill the bullocke before the Lord, and the Priestes Aarons sonnes shall offer the blood, and shall sprinckle it round about vpon the altar, that is by the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 6 Then shall he fley the burnt offering, and cut it in pieces.
\v 7 So the sonnes of Aaron the Priest shall put fire vpon the altar, and lay the wood in order vpon the fire.
\v 8 Then the Priestes Aarons sonnes shall lay the parts in order, the head and the kall vpon the wood that is in the fire which is vpon the altar.
\v 9 But the inwardes thereof and the legges thereof he shall wash in water, and the Priest shall burne all on the altar: for it is a burnt offering, an oblation made by fire, for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 10 And if his sacrifice for the burnt offering be of the flocks (as of the sheepe, or of the goats) he shall offer a male without blemish,
\v 11 And he shall kill it on the Northside of the altar before the Lord, and the Priestes Aarons sonnes shall sprinckle the blood thereof rounde about vpon the altar.
\v 12 And he shall cut it in pieces, separating his head and his kall, and the Priest shall lay them in order vpon the wood that lyeth in the fire which is on the altar:
\v 13 But he shall wash the inwardes, and the legges with water, and the Priest shall offer the whole and burne it vpon the altar: for it is a burnt offering, an oblation made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
\v 14 And if his sacrifice be a burnt offring to the Lord of ye foules, then he shall offer his sacrifice of the turtle doues, or of the yong pigeons.
\v 15 And the Priest shall bring it vnto the altar, and wring the necke of it asunder, and burne it on the altar: and the blood thereof shall bee shed vpon the side of the altar.
\v 16 And he shall plucke out his maw with his fethers, and cast them beside the altar on the East part in the place of the ashes.
\v 17 And he shall cleaue it with his wings, but not deuide it asunder: and the Priest shall burne it vpon the altar vpon the wood that is in the fire: for it is a burnt offering, an oblation made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.