\c 3
\p
\v 1 And he entred againe into ye Synagogue, and there was a man which had a withered had.
\v 2 And they watched him, whether he would heale him on the Sabbath day, that they might accuse him.
\v 3 Then he saide vnto the man which had the withered hand, Arise: stand forth in the middes.
\v 4 And he saide to them, Is it lawfull to doe a good deede on the Sabbath day, or to doe euil? to saue the life, or to kill? But they held their peace.
\v 5 Then hee looked rounde about on them angerly, mourning also for the hardnesse of their hearts, and saide to the man, Stretch foorth thine hand. And he stretched it out: and his hande was restored, as whole as the other.
\v 6 And the Pharises departed, and straightway gathered a councill with the Herodians against him, that they might destroy him.
\v 7 But Iesus auoided with his disciples to the sea: and a great multitude followed him from Galile, and from Iudea,
\v 8 And from Ierusalem, and from Idumea, and beyonde Iordan: and they that dwelled about Tyrus and Sidon, when they had heard what great things he did, came vnto him in great number.
\v 9 And he commanded his disciples, that a litle shippe should waite for him, because of the multitude, lest they shoulde throng him.
\v 10 For hee had healed many, in so much that they preassed vpon him to touch him, as many as had plagues.
\v 11 And when the vncleane spirits sawe him, they fel downe before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Sonne of God.
\v 12 And he sharply rebuked them, to the ende they should not vtter him.
\v 13 Then hee went vp into a mountaine, and called vnto him whome he woulde, and they came vnto him.
\v 14 And hee appoynted twelue that they should be with him, and that he might send them to preache,
\v 15 And that they might haue power to heale sicknesses, and to cast out deuils.
\v 16 And the first was Simon, and hee named Simon, Peter,
\v 17 Then Iames the sonne of Zebedeus, and Iohn Iames brother (and surnamed them Boanerges, which is, the sonnes of thunder,)
\v 18 And Andrew, and Philippe, and Bartlemew, and Matthewe, and Thomas, and Iames, the sonne of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Cananite,
\v 19 And Iudas Iscariot, who also betraied him, and they came home.
\v 20 And the multitude assembled againe, so that they could not so much as eate bread.
\v 21 And when his kinsfolkes heard of it, they went out to laie hold on him: for they sayde that he was beside himselfe.
\v 22 And the Scribes which came downe from Hierusalem, saide, He hath Beelzebub, and through the prince of the deuils he casteth out deuils.
\v 23 But he called them vnto him, and said vnto them in parables, How can Satan driue out Satan?
\v 24 For if a kingdome bee deuided against it selfe, that kingdome can not stand.
\v 25 Or if a house bee deuided against it selfe, that house can not continue.
\v 26 So if Satan make insurrection against himselfe, and be deuided, hee can not endure but is at an ende.
\v 27 No man can enter into a strong mans house, and take away his goods, except hee first binde that strong man, and then spoyle his house.
\v 28 Verely I say vnto you, all sinnes shalbe forgiuen vnto the children of men, and blasphemies, wherewith they blaspheme:
\v 29 But hee that blasphemeth against the holy Ghost, shall neuer haue forgiuenesse, but is culpable of eternall damnation.
\v 30 Because they saide, Hee had an vncleane spirit.
\v 31 Then came his brethren and mother, and stoode without, and sent vnto him, and called him.
\v 32 And the people sate about him, and they said vnto him, Beholde, thy mother, and thy brethren seeke for thee without.
\v 33 But hee answered them, saying, Who is my mother and my brethren?
\v 34 And hee looked rounde about on them, which sate in compasse about him, and saide, Beholde my mother and my brethren.
\v 35 For whosoeuer doeth the will of God, he is my brother, and my sister, and mother.