\c 21
\p
\v 1 And as he behelde, he sawe the rich men, which cast their giftes into the treasurie.
\v 2 And he sawe also a certaine poore widowe which cast in thither two mites:
\v 3 And he sayd, Of a trueth I say vnto you, that this poore widowe hath cast in more then they all.
\v 4 For they all haue of their superfluitie cast into the offerings of God: but she of her penurie hath cast in all the liuing that she had.
\v 5 Nowe as some spake of the Temple, how it was garnished with goodly stones, and with consecrate things, he sayd,
\v 6 Are these ye things that ye looke vpon? the dayes will come wherein a stone shall not be left vpon a stone, that shall not be throwen downe.
\v 7 Then they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things be? and what signe shall there be when these things shall come to passe?
\v 8 And he sayd, Take heede, that ye be not deceiued: for many will come in my Name, saying, I am Christ, and the time draweth neere: follow ye not them therefore.
\v 9 And when ye heare of warres and seditions, be not afraid: for these things must first come, but the ende foloweth not by and by.
\v 10 Then said hee vnto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdome against kingdome,
\v 11 And great earthquakes shall be in diuers places, and hunger, and pestilence, and fearefull things, and great signes shall there be from heauen.
\v 12 But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, deliuering you vp to the assemblies, and into prisons, and bring you before Kings and rulers for my Names sake.
\v 13 And this shall turne to you, for a testimoniall.
\v 14 Lay it vp therefore in your heartes, that ye cast not before hand, what ye shall answere.
\v 15 For I will giue you a mouth and wisdome, where against all your aduersaries shall not be able to speake, nor resist.
\v 16 Yea, ye shalbe betrayed also of your parents, and of your brethren, and kinsmen, and friendes, and some of you shall they put to death.
\v 17 And ye shall bee hated of all men for my Names sake.
\v 18 Yet there shall not one heare of your heads perish.
\v 19 By your patience possesse your soules.
\v 20 And when ye see Hierusalem besieged with souldiers, then vnderstand that the desolation thereof is neere.
\v 21 Then let them which are in Iudea, flee to the mountaines: and let them which are in the middes thereof, depart out: and let not them that are in the countrey, enter therein.
\v 22 For these be the dayes of vengeance, to fulfill all things that are written.
\v 23 But woe be to them that be with childe, and to them that giue sucke in those dayes: for there shalbe great distresse in this land, and wrath ouer this people.
\v 24 And they shall fall on the edge of the sword, and shalbe led captiue into all nations, and Hierusalem shalbe troden vnder foote of the Gentiles, vntill the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
\v 25 Then there shalbe signes in the sunne, and in the moone, and in the starres, and vpon the earth trouble among the nations with perplexitie: the sea and the waters shall roare.
\v 26 And mens hearts shall faile them for feare, and for looking after those thinges which shall come on the worlde: for the powers of heauen shall be shaken.
\v 27 And then shall they see the Sonne of man come in a cloude, with power and great glory.
\v 28 And when these things beginne to come to passe, then looke vp, and lift vp your heades: for your redemption draweth neere.
\v 29 And he spake to them a parable, Behold, the figge tree, and all trees,
\v 30 When they nowe shoote foorth, ye seeing them, knowe of your owne selues, that sommer is then neere.
\v 31 So likewise yee, when yee see these thinges come to passe, knowe ye that the kingdome of God is neere.
\v 32 Verely I say vnto you, This age shall not passe, till all these things be done:
\v 33 Heauen and earth shall passe away, but my wordes shall not passe away.
\v 34 Take heede to your selues, lest at any time your hearts be oppressed with surfeting and drunkennesse, and cares of this life, and least that day come on you at vnwares.
\v 35 For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
\v 36 Watche therefore, and pray continually, that ye may be counted worthy to escape all these thinges that shall come to passe, and that ye may stand before the Sonne of man.
\v 37 Nowe in the day time hee taught in the Temple, and at night hee went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount of Oliues.
\v 38 And all the people came in the morning to him, to heare him in the Temple.