\c 27
\p
\v 1 In that day the Lord with his sore and great and mightie sword shall visite Liuiathan, that pearcing serpent, euen Liuiathan, that crooked serpent, and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.
\v 2 In that daye sing of the vineyarde of redde wine.
\v 3 I the Lord doe keepe it: I will water it euery moment: least any assaile it, I will keepe it night and day.
\v 4 Anger is not in mee: who would set the briers and the thornes against me in battel? I would go through them, I would burne them together.
\v 5 Or will he feele my strength, that he may make peace with me, and be at one with me?
\v 6 Hereafter, Iaakob shall take roote: Israel shall florish and growe, and the world shall be filled with fruite.
\v 7 Hath hee smitten him as hee smote those that smote him? or is hee slaine according to the slaughter of them that were slaine by him?
\v 8 In measure in the branches thereof wilt thou contende with it, when he bloweth with his rough winde in the day of the East winde.
\v 9 By this therefore shall the iniquitie of Iaakob be purged, and this is all the fruit, the taking away of his sinne: whe he shall make all the stones of the altars, as chalke stones broken in pieces, that the groues and images may not stand vp.
\v 10 Yet the defenced citie shalbe desolate, and the habitation shalbe forsaken, and left like a wildernes. There shall the calfe feede, and there shall he lie, and consume the branches thereof.
\v 11 When the boughes of it are drie, they shalbe broken: the women come, and set them on fire: for it is a people of none vnderstading: therefore hee that made them, shall not haue compassion of them, and he that formed them, shall haue no mercie on them.
\v 12 And in that day shall the Lord thresh from the chanell of the Riuer vnto the riuer of Egypt, and ye shalbe gathered, one by one, O children of Israel.
\v 13 In that day also shall the great trumpet be blowen, and they shall come, which perished in the land of Asshur: and they that were chased into the lande of Egypt, and they shall worship the Lord in the holy Mount at Ierusalem.