\c 10
\p
\v 1 But Nadab and Abihu, the sonnes of Aaron, tooke either of them his censor, and put fire therein, and put incense thereupon, and offred strange fire before the Lord, which hee had not commanded them.
\v 2 Therefore a fire went out from the Lord, and deuoured them: so they dyed before the Lord.
\v 3 Then Moses sayde vnto Aaron, This is it that the Lord spake, saying, I will bee sanctified in the that come neere me, and before all the people I will be glorified: but Aaron held his peace.
\v 4 And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan the sonnes of Vzziel, the vncle of Aaron, and saide vnto them, Come neere, cary your brethre from before the Sanctuarie out of the hoste.
\v 5 Then they went, and caried them in their coates out of the host, as Moses had comaunded.
\v 6 After, Moses saide vnto Aaron and vnto Eleazar and Ithamar his sonnes, Vncouer not your heads, neither rent your clothes, least ye dye, and least wrath come vpon all ye people: but let your brethren, all the house of Israel bewayle the burning which the Lord hath kindled.
\v 7 And go not yee out from the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, least ye dye: for the anointing oyle of the Lord is vpon you: and they did according to Moses commandement.
\v 8 And the Lord spake vnto Aaron, saying,
\v 9 Thou shalt not drinke wine nor strong drinke, thou, nor thy sonnes with thee, when yee come into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, lest ye die: this is an ordinance for euer throughout your generations,
\v 10 That ye may put difference betweene the holy and the vnholy, and betweene the cleane and the vncleane,
\v 11 And that ye may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the Lord hath commanded them by the hand of Moses.
\v 12 Then Moses saide vnto Aaron and vnto Eleazar and to Ithamar his sonnes that were left, Take the meate offring that remaineth of the offrings of the Lord, made by fire, and eate it without leauen beside ye altar: for it is most holy:
\v 13 And ye shall eate it in the holy place, because it is thy duetie and thy sonnes duety of the offringes of the Lord made by fire: for so I am commanded.
\v 14 Also the shaken breast and the heaue shoulder shall yee eate in a cleane place: thou, and thy sonnes, and thy daughters with thee: for they are giuen as thy duetie and thy sonnes duety, of the peace offringes of the children of Israel.
\v 15 The heaue shoulder, and the shaken breast shall they bring with the offringes made by fire of the fat, to shake it to and from before the Lord, and it shalbe thine and thy sonnes with thee by a lawe for euer, as the Lord hath commanded.
\v 16 And Moses sought the goate that was offred for sinne, and lo, it was burnt: therefore he was angrie with Eleazar and Ithamar the sonnes of Aaron, which were left aliue, saying,
\v 17 Wherfore haue ye not eaten the sinne offring in the holy place, seeing it is most Holie? and God hath giuen it you, to beare the iniquitie of the Congregation, to make an atonement for them before the Lord.
\v 18 Beholde, the blood of it was not brought within the holy place: ye should haue eaten it in the holy place, as I commanded.
\v 19 And Aaron said vnto Moses, Behold, this day haue they offred their sinne offring, and their burnt offring before the Lord, and such things as thou knowest are come vnto mee: If I had eaten the sinne offring to day, should it haue bene accepted in the sight of the Lord?
\v 20 So when Moses heard it, he was content.