\c 16
\p
\v 1 Nowe Sarai Abrams wife bare him no children, and she had a maide an Egyptian, Hagar by name.
\v 2 And Sarai said vnto Abram, Beholde now, the Lord hath restrained me from childe bearing. I pray thee goe in vnto my maide: it may be that I shall receiue a childe by her. And Abram obeyed the voyce of Sarai.
\v 3 Then Sarai Abrams wife tooke Hagar her maide the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelled ten yeere in the land of Canaan, and gaue her to her husband Abram for his wife.
\v 4 And he went in vnto Hagar, and she conceiued. and when she sawe that she had conceiued, her dame was despised in her eyes.
\v 5 Then Sarai saide to Abram, Thou doest me wrong. I haue giuen my maide into thy bosome, and she seeth that she hath conceiued, and I am despised in her eyes: the Lord iudge betweene me and thee.
\v 6 Then Abram saide to Sarai, Beholde, thy maide is in thine hand: doe with her as it pleaseth thee. Then Sarai dealt roughly with her: wherefore she fled from her.
\v 7 But the Angel of the Lord founde her beside a fountaine of water in the wildernesse by the fountaine in the way to Shur,
\v 8 And he saide, Hagar Sarais maide, whence commest thou? and whither wilt thou goe? And she said, I flie from my dame Sarai.
\v 9 Then the Angel of the Lord saide to her, Returne to thy dame, and humble thy selfe vnder her hands.
\v 10 Againe the Angel of the Lord saide vnto her, I will so greatly increase thy seede, that it shall not be numbred for multitude.
\v 11 Also the Angel of the Lord said vnto her, See, thou art with childe, and shalt beare a sonne, and shalt call his name Ishmael: for the Lord hath heard thy tribulation.
\v 12 And he shalbe a wilde man: his hande shall be against euery man, and euery mans hand against him. and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren.
\v 13 Then she called the name of the Lord, that spake vnto her, Thou God lookest on me: for she said, Haue I not also here looked after him that seeth me?
\v 14 Wherefore the well was called, Beerlahai-roi. lo, it is betweene Kadesh and Bered.
\v 15 And Hagar bare Abram a sonne, and Abram called his sonnes name, which Hagar bare, Ishmael.
\v 16 And Abram was foure score and sixe yeere olde, when Hagar bare him Ishmael.