\c 4
\p
\v 1 The sonnes of Iudah were Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
\v 2 And Reaiah the sonne of Shobal begat Iahath, and Iahath begate Ahumai, and Lahad: these are the families of the Zoreathites.
\v 3 And these were of the father of Etam, Izreel, and Ishma and Idbash: and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi.
\v 4 And Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah: these are the sonnes of Hur the eldest sonne of Ephratah, the father of Beth-lehem.
\v 5 But Asher the father of Tekoa had two wiues, Heleah, and Naarah.
\v 6 And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni and Haashtari: these were the sonnes of Naarah.
\v 7 And the sonnes of Heleah were Zereth, Iezohar and Ethnan.
\v 8 Also Coz begate Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the sonne of Harum.
\v 9 But Iabez was more honourable then his brethren: and his mother called his name Iabez, saying, Because I bare him in sorowe.
\v 10 And Iabez called on the God of Israel, saying, If thou wilt blesse me in deede, and enlarge my coastes, and if thine hand be with me, and thou wilt cause me to be deliuered from euill, that I be not hurt. And God graunted the thing that he asked.
\v 11 And Chelub the brother of Shuah begate Mehir, which was the father of Eshton.
\v 12 And Eshton begate Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of the citie of Nahash: these are the men of Rechah.
\v 13 And the sonnes of Kenaz were Othniel and Zeraiah, and the sonne of Othniel, Hathath.
\v 14 And Meonothai begate Ophrah. And Seraiah begate Ioab the father of the valley of craftesmen: for they were craftesmen.
\v 15 And the sonnes of Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh were Iru, Elah, and Naam. And the sonne of Elah was Kenaz.
\v 16 And the sonnes of Iehaleel were Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.
\v 17 And the sonnes of Ezrah were Iether and Mered, and Epher, and Ialon, and he begate Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa.
\v 18 Also his wife Iehudiiah bare Iered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Socho, and Iekuthiel the father of Zanoah: and these are the sonnes of Bithiah ye daughter of Pharaoh which Mered tooke.
\v 19 And the sonnes of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham the father of Keilah were the Garmites, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.
\v 20 And the sonnes of Shimon were Amnon and Rinnah, Ben-hanam and Tilon. And the sonnes of Ishi were Zoheth, and Benzoheth.
\v 21 The sonnes of Shelah, the sonne of Iudah were Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the householdes of them that wrought fine linnen in the house of Ashbea.
\v 22 And Iokim and the men of Chozeba and Ioash, and Saraph, which had the dominion in Moab, and Iashubi Lehem. These also are auncient things.
\v 23 These were potters, and dwelt among plants and hedges: there they dwelt with the king for his worke.
\v 24 The sonnes of Simeon were Nemuel, and Iamin, Iarib, Zerah, and Shaul,
\v 25 Whose sonne was Shallum, and his sonne, Mibsam, and his sonne Mishma.
\v 26 And the sonnes of Mishma, Hamuel was his sonne, Zacchur his sonne, and Shimei his sonne.
\v 27 And Shimei had sixteene sonnes, and sixe daughters, but his brethren had not many children, neither was all their familie like to the children of Iudah in multitude.
\v 28 And they dwelt at Beer-sheba, and at Moladah, and at Hazar Shual,
\v 29 And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,
\v 30 And at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,
\v 31 And at Beth-marcaboth, and at Hazar Susim, at Beth-birei, and at Shaaraim, these were their cities vnto the reigne of Dauid.
\v 32 And their townes were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, fiue cities.
\v 33 And all their townes that were rounde about these cities vnto Baal, These are their habitations and the declaration of their genealogie,
\v 34 And Meshobab, and Iamlech, and Ioshah the sonne of Amashiah,
\v 35 And Ioel and Iehu the sonne of Ioshibiah, the sonne of Seraiah, the sonne of Asiel,
\v 36 And Elionai, and Iaakobah, and Ieshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Iesimiel, and Benaiah,
\v 37 And Ziza the sonne of Shiphei, the sonne of Allon, the sonne of Iedaiah, the sonne of Shimri, the sonne of Shemaiah.
\v 38 These were famous princes in their families, and increased greatly their fathers houses.
\v 39 And they went to the entring in of Gedor, euen vnto the East side of the valley, to seeke pasture for their sheepe.
\v 40 And they found fat pasture and good, and a wide land, both quiet and fruitfull: for they of Ham had dwelt there before.
\v 41 And these described by name, came in the dayes of Hezekiah king of Iudah, and smote their tents, and the inhabitants that were found there, and destroyed them vtterly vnto this day, and dwelt in their roume, because there was pasture there for their sheepe.
\v 42 And besides these, fiue hundreth men of the sonnes of Simeon went to mount Seir, and Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rophaiah, and Vzziel the sonnes of Ishi were their captaines,
\v 43 And they smote the rest of Amalek that had escaped, and they dwelt there vnto this day.