\c 13
\p
\v 1 When Ephraim spake, there was trembling: hee exalted him selfe in Israel, but he hath sinned in Baal, and is dead.
\v 2 And nowe they sinne more and more, and haue made them molten images of their siluer, and idoles according to their owne vnderstanding: they were all the woorke of the craftesmen: they say one to another whiles they sacrifice a man, Let them kisse the calues.
\v 3 Therefore they shall bee as the morning cloude, and as the morning dewe that passeth away, as the chaffe that is driuen with a whirlewind out of the floore, and as the smoke that goeth out of the chimney.
\v 4 Yet I am the Lord thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt knowe no God but me: for there is no Sauiour beside me.
\v 5 I did knowe thee in the wildernesse, in the land of drought.
\v 6 As in their pastures, so were they filled: they were filled, and their heart was exalted: therefore haue they forgotten me.
\v 7 And I wil be vnto them as a very lyon, and as a leopard in the way of Asshur.
\v 8 I will meete them, as a beare that is robbed of her whelpes, and I will breake the kall of their heart, and there will I deuoure them like a lion: the wilde beast shall teare them.
\v 9 O Israel, one hath destroyed thee, but in me is thine helpe.
\v 10 I am: where is thy King, that shoulde help thee in al thy cities? and thy iudges, of whom thou saidest, Giue me a King, and princes?
\v 11 I gaue thee a King in mine anger, and I tooke him away in my wrath.
\v 12 The iniquitie of Ephraim is bound vp: his sinne is hid.
\v 13 The sorowes of a trauailing woman shall come vpon him: he is an vnwise sonne, els would he not stande still at the time, euen at the breaking forth of the children.
\v 14 I wil redeeme them from the power of the graue: I will deliuer them from death: O death, I wil be thy death: O graue, I will be thy destruction: repentance is hid from mine eyes.
\v 15 Though he grewe vp among his brethren, an East winde shall come, euen the winde of the Lord shall come vp from the wildernesse, and drie vp his veine, and his fountaine shalbe dryed vp: he shall spoyle the treasure of all pleasant vessels.