\c 27
\p
\v 1 The worde of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
\v 2 Sonne of man, take vp a lametation for Tyrus,
\v 3 And say vnto Tyrus, that is situate at the entrie of the sea, which is the marte of the people for many yles, Thus sayeth the Lord God, O Tyrus, thou hast said, I am of perfite beautie.
\v 4 Thy borders are in the middes of the sea, and thy builders haue made thee of perfit beauty.
\v 5 They haue made all thy shippe boardes of firre trees of Shenir: they haue brought cedars from Lebanon, to make mastes for thee.
\v 6 Of ye okes of Bashan haue they made thine ores: the company of the Assyrians haue made thy banks of yuorie, brought out of ye yles of Chittim.
\v 7 Fine linen with broydered woorke, brought from Egypt, was spread ouer thee to be thy sayle, blue silke and purple, brought from the yles of Elishah, was thy couering.
\v 8 The inhabitants of Zidon, and Aruad were thy mariners, O Tyrus: thy wise men that were in thee, they were thy pilots.
\v 9 The ancients of Gebal, and the wise men thereof were in thee thy calkers, all the shippes of the sea with their mariners were in thee to occupie thy marchandise.
\v 10 They of Persia, and of Lud and of Phut were in thine armie: thy men of warre they hanged the shielde and helmet in thee: they set foorth thy beautie.
\v 11 The men of Aruad with thine armie were vpon thy walles round about, and the Gammadims were in thy towres: they hanged their shields vpon thy walles round about: they haue made thy beautie perfite.
\v 12 They of Tarshish were thy marchantes for the multitude of all riches, for siluer, yron, tynne, and leade, which they brought to thy faires.
\v 13 They of Iauan, Tubal and Meshech were thy marchants, concerning the liues of men, and they brought vessels of brasse for thy marchadise.
\v 14 They of the house of Togarmah brought to thy faires horses, and horsemen, and mules.
\v 15 The men of Dedan were thy marchantes: and the marchandise of many yles were in thine handes: they brought thee for a present hornes, teeth, and peacockes.
\v 16 They of Aram were thy marchants for the multitude of thy wares: they occupied in thy faires with emerauds, purple, and broidred worke, and fine linen, and corall, and pearle.
\v 17 They of Iudah and of the land of Israel were thy marchants: they brought for thy marchandise wheat of Minnith, and Pannag, and honie and oyle, and balme.
\v 18 They of Damascus were thy marchants in ye multitude of thy wares, for the multitude of all riches, as in the wine of Helbon and white wooll.
\v 19 They of Dan also and of Iauan, going to and from, occupied in thy faires: yron woorke, cassia and calamus were among thy marchandise.
\v 20 They of Dedan were thy marchants in precious clothes for the charets.
\v 21 They of Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar occupied with thee, in lambes, and rammes and goates: in these were they thy marchants.
\v 22 The marchats of Sheba, and Raamah were thy marchantes: they occupied in thy faires with the chiefe of all spices, and with al precious stones and golde.
\v 23 They of Haram and Canneh and Eden, the marchants of Sheba, Asshur and Chilmad were thy marchants.
\v 24 These were thy marchants in all sortes of things, in raiment of blewe silke, and of broydred woorke, and in coffers for the rich apparell, which were bound with cordes: chaines also were among thy marchandise.
\v 25 The shippes of Tarshish were thy chiefe in thy marchandise, and thou wast replenished and made very glorious in the middes of the sea.
\v 26 Thy robbers haue brought thee into great waters: the East winde hath broken thee in the middes of the sea.
\v 27 Thy riches and thy faires, thy marchandise, thy mariners and pilotes, thy calkers, and the occupiers of thy marchandise and al thy men of warre that are in thee, and all thy multitude which is in the middes of thee, shall fall in the middes of the sea in the day of thy ruine.
\v 28 The suburbes shall shake at the sound of the crie of thy pilotes.
\v 29 And all that handle the ore, the mariners and al the pilots of the sea shall come downe from their shippes, and shall stand vpon the land,
\v 30 And shall cause their voyce to be heard against thee, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast dust vpon their heads, and wallow theselues in the ashes.
\v 31 They shall plucke off their heare for thee and gird them with a sackecloth, and they shall weepe for thee with sorow of heart and bitter mourning.
\v 32 And in their mourning, they shall take vp a lametation for thee, saying, What citie is like Tyrus, so destroied in the middes of the sea!
\v 33 When thy wares went foorth of the seas, thou filledst many people, and thou diddest enrich the Kings of the earth with the multitude of thy riches and of thy marchandise.
\v 34 When thou shalt be broken by ye seas in the depths of the waters, thy marchandise and all thy multitude, which was in the mids of thee, shall fal.
\v 35 All the inhabitantes of the yles shall be astonished at thee, and all their Kings shall be sore afraide and troubled in their countenance.
\v 36 The marchants among the people shall hisse at thee: thou shalt be a terrour, and neuer shalt be any more.