\c 11
\p
\v 1 And the rulers of the people dwelt in Ierusalem: the other people also cast lottes, to bring one out of ten to dwel in Ierusalem the holy citie, and nine partes to be in the cities.
\v 2 And the people thanked all the men that were willing to dwell in Ierusalem.
\v 3 These now are the chiefe of the prouince, that dwelt in Ierusalem, but in the cities of Iudah, euery one dwelt in his owne possession in their cities of Israel, the Priestes and the Leuites, and the Nethinims, and the sonnes of Salomons seruants.
\v 4 And in Ierusalem dwelt certaine of the children of Iudah, and of the children of Beniamin. Of the sonnes of Iudah, Athaiah, the sonne of Vziiah, the sonne of Zechariah, the sonne of Amariah, the sonne of Shephatiah, the sonne of Mahaleel, of the sonnes of Perez,
\v 5 And Maaseiah the sonne of Baruch, the sonne of Col Hozeh, the sonne of Hazaiah, the sonne of Adaiah, the sonne of Ioiarib, the sonne of Zechariah, the sonne of Shiloni.
\v 6 All the sonnes of Perez that dwelt at Ierusalem, were foure hundreth, three score and eight valiant men.
\v 7 These also are the sonnes of Beniamin, Sallu, the sonne of Meshullam, the sonne of Ioed, the sonne of Pedaiah, the sonne of Kolaiah, the sonne of Maaseiah, the sonne of Ithiel, the sonne of Ieshaiah.
\v 8 And after him Gabai, Sallai, nine hundreth and twentie and eight.
\v 9 And Ioel the sonne of Zichri was gouernour ouer them: and Iudah, the sonne of Senuah was the second ouer the citie:
\v 10 Of the Priestes, Iedaiah, the sonne of Ioiarib, Iachin.
\v 11 Seraiah, the sonne of Hilkiah, the sonne of Meshullam, the sonne of Zadok, the sonne of Meraioth, the sonne of Ahitub was chiefe of the house of God.
\v 12 And their brethren that did the worke in the Temple, were eight hundreth, twenty and two: and Adaiah, the sonne of Ieroham, the sonne of Pelaliah, the sonne of Amzi, the sonne of Zechariah, the sonne of Pashur, the sonne of Malchiah:
\v 13 And his brethren, chiefe of the fathers, two hundreth and two and fourtie: and Amashsai the sonne of Azareel, the sonne of Ahazai, the sonne of Meshilemoth, the sonne of Immer:
\v 14 And their brethren valiant men, an hundreth and eight and twentie: and their ouerseer was Zabdiel the sonne of Hagedolim.
\v 15 And of the Leuites, Shemaiah, the sonne of Hashub, the sonne of Azrikam, the sonne of Hashabiah, the sonne of Bunni.
\v 16 And Shabbethai, and Iozabad of the chiefe of the Leuites were ouer the workes of the house of God without.
\v 17 And Mattaniah, the sonne of Micha, the sonne of Zabdi, the sonne of Asaph was the chiefe to begin the thankesgiuing and prayer: and Bakbukiah the second of his brethren, and Abda, the sonne of Shammua, the sonne of Galal, the sonne of Ieduthun.
\v 18 All the Leuites in the holy citie were two hundreth foure score and foure.
\v 19 And the porters Akkub, Talmon and their brethren that kept the gates, were an hundreth twentie and two.
\v 20 And the residue of Israel, of the Priests, and of the Leuites dwelt in al the cities of Iudah, euery one in his inheritance.
\v 21 And the Nethinims dwelt in the fortresse, and Ziha, and Gispa was ouer the Nethinims.
\v 22 And the ouerseer of the Leuites in Ierusalem was Vzzi the sonne of Bani, the sonne of Ashabiah, the sonne of Mattaniah, the sonne of Micha: of the sonnes of Asaph singers were ouer the worke of the house of God.
\v 23 For it was the Kings commandement cocerning them, that faithfull prouision shoulde bee for the singers euery day.
\v 24 And Pethahiah the sonne of Meshezabeel, of the sonnes of Zerah, the sonne of Iudah was at the Kings hand in all matters concerning the people.
\v 25 And in the villages in their landes, some of the children of Iudah dwelt in Kiriath-arba, and in the villages thereof, and in Dibon, and in the villages thereof, and in Iekabzeel. and in the villages thereof,
\v 26 And in Ieshua, and in Moladah, and in Beth palet,
\v 27 And in Hazer-shual, and in Beer-sheba, and in the villages thereof,
\v 28 And in Ziklag, and in Mechonah, and in the villages thereof,
\v 29 And in En-rimmon, and in Zareah, and in Iarmuth,
\v 30 Zanoah, Adullam, and in their villages, in Lachish, and in the fieldes thereof, at Azekah, and in the villages thereof: and they dwelt from Beer-sheba, vnto the valley of Hinnom.
\v 31 And the sonnes of Beniamin from Geba, in Michmash, and Aiia, and Beth-el, and in the villages thereof,
\v 32 Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
\v 33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
\v 34 Hadid, Zeboim, Nebalat,
\v 35 Lod and Ono, in the carpenters valley.
\v 36 And of the Leuites were diuisions in Iudah and in Beniamin.