\c 3
\p
\v 1 Nowe Peter and Iohn went vp together into the Temple, at the ninth houre of prayer.
\v 2 And a certaine man which was a creeple from his mothers wombe, was caried, whom they layde dayly at the gate of the Temple called Beautifull, to aske almes of them that entred into ye Temple.
\v 3 Who seeing Peter and Iohn, that they would enter into the Temple, desired to receiue an almes.
\v 4 And Peter earnestly beholding him with Iohn, said, Looke on vs.
\v 5 And hee gaue heede vnto them, trusting to receiue some thing of them.
\v 6 Then said Peter, Siluer and gold haue I none, but such as I haue, that giue I thee: In the Name of Iesus Christ of Nazareth, rise vp and walke.
\v 7 And hee tooke him by the right hand, and lift him vp, and immediately his feete and ankle bones receiued strength.
\v 8 And he leaped vp, stoode, and walked, and entred with them into the Temple, walking and leaping, and praysing God.
\v 9 And all the people sawe him walke, and praysing God.
\v 10 And they knewe him, that it was he which sate for the almes at the Beautifull gate of the Temple: and they were amased, and sore astonied at that, which was come vnto him.
\v 11 And as the creeple which was healed, held Peter and Iohn, all the people ranne amased vnto them in the porch which is called Salomons.
\v 12 So when Peter saw it, he answered vnto the people, Ye me of Israel, why marueile ye at this? or why looke ye so stedfastly on vs, as though by our owne power or godlines, we had made this man go?
\v 13 The God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Iacob, the God of our fathers hath glorified his Sonne Iesus, whom ye betrayed, and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had iudged him to be deliuered.
\v 14 But ye denied the Holy one and the Iust, and desired a murtherer to be giuen you,
\v 15 And killed the Lord of life, whome God hath raised from the dead, whereof we are witnesses.
\v 16 And his Name hath made this man sound, whom ye see, and know, through faith in his Name: and the faith which is by him, hath giuen to him this perfite health of his whole body in the presence of you all.
\v 17 And now brethren, I know that through ignorance ye did it, as did also your gouernours.
\v 18 But those thinges which God before had shewed by the mouth of all his Prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath thus fulfilled.
\v 19 Amend your liues therefore, and turne, that your sinnes may be put away, whe the time of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord.
\v 20 And he shall sende Iesus Christ, which before was preached vnto you,
\v 21 Whome the heauen must containe vntill the time that all thinges be restored, which God had spoken by the mouth of all his holy Prophets since the world began.
\v 22 For Moses said vnto the Fathers, The Lord your God shall raise vp vnto you a Prophet, euen of your brethren, like vnto me: ye shall heare him in all things, whatsoeuer he shall say vnto you.
\v 23 For it shalbe that euery person which shall not heare that Prophet, shall be destroyed out of the people.
\v 24 Also all the Prophets from Samuel, and thencefoorth as many as haue spoken, haue likewise foretolde of these dayes.
\v 25 Ye are the children of the Prophets, and of the couenant, which God hath made vnto our fathers, saying to Abraham, Euen in thy seede shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.
\v 26 First vnto you hath God raysed vp his Sonne Iesus, and him hee hath sent to blesse you, in turning euery one of you from your iniquities.