\c 28
\p
\v 1 And cause thou thy brother Aaron to come vnto thee and his sonnes with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may serue me in the Priestes office: I meane Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar Aarons sonnes.
\v 2 Also thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, glorious and beautifull.
\v 3 Therefore thou shalt speake vnto al cunning men, whome I haue filled with the spirite of wisedome, that they make Aarons garments to consecrate him, that he may serue me in the Priestes office.
\v 4 Nowe these shall be the garments, which they shall make, a brest plate, and an Ephod, and a robe, and a broydred coate, a miter, and a girdle. so these holy garments shall they make for Aaron thy brother, and for his sonnes, that he may serue me in the Priests office.
\v 5 Therefore they shall take golde, and blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linnen,
\v 6 And they shall make the Ephod of gold, blewe silke, and purple, skarlet, and fine twined linen of broydred worke.
\v 7 The two shoulders thereof shalbe ioyned together by their two edges: so shall it be closed.
\v 8 And the embroydred garde of the same Ephod, which shalbe vpon him, shall be of the selfe same worke and stuffe, euen of golde, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
\v 9 And thou shalt take two onix stones, and graue vpon them the names of the children of Israel:
\v 10 Sixe names of them vpon the one stone, and the sixe names that remaine, vpon the seconde stone, according to their generations.
\v 11 Thou shalt cause to graue the two stones according to the names of the children of Israel by a grauer of signets, that worketh and graueth in stone, and shalt make them to be set and embossed in golde.
\v 12 And thou shalt put the two stones vpon the shoulders of the Ephod, as stones of remebrance of the children of Israel: for Aaron shall beare their names before the Lord vpon his two shoulders for a remembrance.
\v 13 So thou shalt make bosses of golde,
\v 14 And two cheynes of fine golde at the ende, of wrethed worke shalt thou make them, and shalt fasten the wrethed cheynes vpon the bosses.
\v 15 Also thou shalt make the brest plate of iudgement with broydred worke: like the worke of the Ephod shalt thou make it: of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen shalt thou make it.
\v 16 Foure square it shall be and double, an hand bredth long and an hand bredth broade.
\v 17 Then thou shalt set it full of places for stones, euen foure rowes of stones: the order shalbe this, a rubie, a topaze, and a carbuncle in the first rowe.
\v 18 And in the seconde rowe thou shalt set an emeraude, a saphir, and a diamonde.
\v 19 And in the third rowe a turkeis, an achate, and an hematite.
\v 20 And in the fourth rowe a chrysolite, an onix, and a iasper: and they shall be set in golde in their embossements.
\v 21 And the stones shall be according to the names of the children of Israel, twelue, according to their names, grauen as signets, euerye one after his name, and they shall bee for the twelue tribes.
\v 22 Then thou shalt make vpon the breast plate two cheines at the endes of wrethen worke of pure golde.
\v 23 Thou shalt make also vpon the brest plate two rings of golde, and put the two rings on the two endes of the brest plate.
\v 24 And thou shalt put the two wrethen chaynes of golde in the two rings in the endes of the brest plate.
\v 25 And the other two endes of the two wrethen cheines, thou shalt fasten in ye two embossements, and shalt put them vpon the shoulders of the Ephod on the foreside of it.
\v 26 Also thou shalt make two rings of gold, which thou shalt put in the two other endes of the brest plate, vpon the border thereof, towarde the inside of the Ephod.
\v 27 And two other rings of golde thou shalt make, and put them on the two sides of the Ephod, beneath in the forepart of it ouer against the coupling of it vpon the broydred garde of the Ephod.
\v 28 Thus they shall binde the brest plate by his rings vnto the rings of the Ephod, with a lace of blewe silke, that it may be fast vpon the broydred garde of the Ephod, and that the brest plate be not loosed from the Ephod.
\v 29 So Aaron shall beare the names of the children of Israel in the brest plate of iudgement vpon his heart, when he goeth into the holy place, for a remembrance continually before the Lord.
\v 30 Also thou shalt put in the brest plate of iudgement the Vrim and the Thummim, which shalbe vpon Aarons heart, when he goeth in before the Lord: and Aaron shall beare the iudgement of the children of Israel vpon his heart before the Lord continually.
\v 31 And thou shalt make the robe of the Ephod altogether of blewe silke.
\v 32 And the hole for his head shalbe in the middes of it, hauing an edge of wouen woorke rounde about the coller of it: so it shalbe as the coller of an habergeon that it rent not.
\v 33 And beneath vpon the skirtes thereof thou shalt make pomegranates of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, round about the skirts thereof, and belles of gold betweene them round about:
\v 34 That is, a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate rounde about vpon the skirtes of the robe.
\v 35 So it shalbe vpon Aaron, when he ministreth, and his sound shalbe heard, when he goeth into the holy place before the Lord, and when he commeth out, and he shall not dye.
\v 36 Also thou shalt make a plate of pure golde, and graue thereon, as signets are grauen, Holines To The Lord,
\v 37 And thou shalt put it on a blew silke lace, and it shalbe vpon the miter: euen vpon the fore front of the miter shall it be.
\v 38 So it shalbe vpon Aarons forehead, that Aaron may beare the iniquitie of the offrings, which the children of Israel shall offer in all their holy offrings: and it shall be alwayes vpon his forehead, to make them acceptable before the Lord.
\v 39 Likewise thou shalt embroyder the fine line coat, and thou shalt make a miter of fine line, but thou shalt make a girdell of needle worke.
\v 40 Also thou shalt make for Aarons sonnes coates, and thou shalt make the girdels, and bonets shalt thou make them for glorie and comelinesse.
\v 41 And thou shalt put them vpon Aaron thy brother, and on his sonnes with him, and shalt anoint them, and fill their handes, and sanctifie them, that they may minister vnto me in the Priestes office.
\v 42 Thou shalt also make them linen breeches to couer their priuities: from the loynes vnto the thighs shall they reache.
\v 43 And they shalbe for Aaron and his sonnes when they come into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, or whe they come vnto the altar to minister in the holy place, that they commit not iniquitie, and so die. This shalbe a lawe for euer vnto him and to his seede after him.