\c 6
\p
\v 1 After these thinges, Iesus went his way ouer the sea of Galile, which is Tiberias.
\v 2 And a great multitude followed him, because they sawe his miracles, which hee did on them that were diseased.
\v 3 Then Iesus went vp into a mountaine, and there he sate with his disciples.
\v 4 Now the Passeouer, a feast of the Iewes, was neere.
\v 5 Then Iesus lift vp his eyes, and seeing that a great multitude came vnto him, hee sayde vnto Philippe, Whence shall we buy breade, that these might eate?
\v 6 (And this he sayde to prooue him: for hee himselfe knewe what he would doe.)
\v 7 Philippe answered him, Two hundreth penie worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that euery one of them may take a litle.
\v 8 Then saide vnto him one of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peters brother,
\v 9 There is a little boy heere, which hath fiue barlie loaues, and two fishes: but what are they among so many?
\v 10 And Iesus saide, Make ye people sit downe. (Nowe there was much grasse in that place.) Then the men sate downe in nomber, about fiue thousande.
\v 11 And Iesus tooke the bread, and gaue thanks, and gaue to the disciples, and the disciples, to them that were set downe: and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.
\v 12 And when they were satisfied, he said vnto his disciples, Gather vp the broken meat which remaineth, that nothing be lost.
\v 13 Then they gathered it together, and filled twelue baskets with the broken meat of the fiue barly loaues, which remained vnto them that had eaten.
\v 14 Then the men, when they had seene the miracle that Iesus did, saide, This is of a trueth that Prophet that should come into the world.
\v 15 When Iesus therfore perceiued that they would come, and take him to make him a King, hee departed againe into a mountaine himselfe alone.
\v 16 When euen was nowe come, his disciples went downe vnto the sea,
\v 17 And entred into a shippe, and went ouer the sea, towardes Capernaum: and nowe it was darke, and Iesus was not come to them.
\v 18 And the Sea arose with a great winde that blewe.
\v 19 And when they had rowed about fiue and twentie, or thirtie furlongs, they sawe Iesus walking on the sea, and drawing neere vnto the ship: so they were afraide.
\v 20 But he said vnto them, It is I: be not afraid.
\v 21 Then willingly they receiued him into the ship, and the ship was by and by at the lande, whither they went.
\v 22 The day following, the people which stoode on the other side of the sea, saw that there was none other ship there, saue that one, whereinto his disciples were entred, and that Iesus went not with his disciples in the ship, but that his disciples were gone alone,
\v 23 And that there came other ships from Tiberias neere vnto the place where they ate the bread, after the Lord had giuen thankes.
\v 24 Nowe when the people sawe that Iesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also tooke shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for Iesus.
\v 25 And when they had founde him on the other side of the sea, they sayde vnto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?
\v 26 Iesus answered them; and sayde, Verely, verely I say vnto you, ye seeke me not because ye sawe the miracles, but because yee ate of ye loaues, and were filled.
\v 27 Labour not for ye meate which perisheth, but for the meate that endureth vnto euerlasting life, which the Sonne of man shall giue vnto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.
\v 28 Then sayde they vnto him, What shall we doe, that we might worke the workes of God?
\v 29 Iesus answered, and sayde vnto them, This is the woorke of God, that yee beleeue in him, whome he hath sent.
\v 30 They sayde therefore vnto him, What signe shewest thou then, that we may see it, and beleeue thee? what doest thou woorke?
\v 31 Our fathers did eate Manna in the desart, as it is written, Hee gaue them bread from heauen to eate.
\v 32 Then Iesus said vnto them, Verely, verely I say vnto you, Moses gaue you not that bread from heauen, but my Father giueth you that true bread from heauen.
\v 33 For the breade of God is hee which commeth downe from heauen, and giueth life vnto the world.
\v 34 Then they said vnto him, Lord, euermore giue vs this bread.
\v 35 And Iesus saide vnto them, I am that bread of life: he that commeth to me, shall not hunger, and he that beleeueth in me, shall neuer thirst.
\v 36 But I said vnto you, that ye also haue seene me, and beleeue not.
\v 37 All that the Father giueth me, shall come to mee: and him that commeth to me, I cast not away.
\v 38 For I came downe from heauen, not to do mine owne wil, but his wil which hath sent me.
\v 39 And this is the Fathers will which hath sent mee, that of all which hee hath giuen mee, I should lose nothing, but shoulde raise it vp againe at the last day.
\v 40 And this is the will of him that sent mee, that euery man which seeth the Sonne, and beleeueth in him, should haue euerlasting life: and I will raise him vp at the last day.
\v 41 The Iewes then murmured at him because hee sayde, I am that bread, which is come downe from heauen.
\v 42 And they said, Is not this Iesus that sonne of Ioseph, whose father and mother wee knowe? howe then sayth he, I came downe from heauen?
\v 43 Iesus then answered, and saide vnto them, Murmure not among your selues.
\v 44 No man can come to mee, except the Father, which hath sent mee, drawe him: and I will raise him vp at the last day.
\v 45 It is written in the Prophetes, And they shalbe al taught of God. Euery man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, commeth vnto me:
\v 46 Not that any man hath seene the Father, saue hee which is of God, hee hath seene the Father.
\v 47 Verely, verely I say vnto you, hee that beleeueth in me, hath euerlasting life.
\v 48 I am that bread of life.
\v 49 Your fathers did eate Manna in the wildernesse, and are dead.
\v 50 This is that breade, which commeth downe from heauen, that hee which eateth of it, shoulde not die.
\v 51 I am that liuing breade, which came downe from heauen: if any man eate of this breade, hee shall liue for euer: and the bread that I will giue, is my flesh, which I will giue for the life of the world.
\v 52 Then the Iewes stroue among themselues, saying, Howe can this man giue vs his flesh to eate?
\v 53 Then Iesus saide vnto them, Verely, verely I say vnto you, Except yee eate the flesh of the Sonne of man, and drinke his blood, yee haue no life in you.
\v 54 Whosoeuer eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternall life, and I will raise him vp at the last day.
\v 55 For my flesh is meat in deede, and my blood is drinke in deede.
\v 56 Hee that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him.
\v 57 As that liuing Father hath sent me, so liue I by the Father, and he that eateth me, euen he shall liue by me.
\v 58 This is that bread which came downe from heauen: not as your fathers haue eaten Manna, and are deade. Hee that eateth of this bread, shall liue for euer.
\v 59 These things spake he in the Synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
\v 60 Many therefore of his disciples (when they heard this) sayde, This is an hard saying: who can heare it?
\v 61 But Iesus knowing in himselfe, that his disciples murmured at this, saide vnto them, Doeth this offend you?
\v 62 What then if yee should see that Sonne of man ascend vp where he was before?
\v 63 It is the spirite that quickeneth: the flesh profiteth nothing: the woordes that I speake vnto you, are spirite and life.
\v 64 But there are some of you that beleeue not: for Iesus knewe from the beginning, which they were that beleeued not, and who shoulde betray him.
\v 65 And hee saide, Therefore saide I vnto you, that no man can come vnto mee, except it be giuen vnto him of my Father.
\v 66 From that time, many of his disciples went backe, and walked no more with him.
\v 67 Then sayde Iesus to the twelue, Will yee also goe away?
\v 68 Then Simon Peter answered him, Master, to whome shall we goe? thou hast the wordes of eternall life:
\v 69 And we beleeue and knowe that thou art that Christ that Sonne of the liuing God.
\v 70 Iesus answered them, Haue not I chosen you twelue, and one of you is a deuill?
\v 71 Now he spake it of Iudas Iscariot the sonne of Simon: for hee it was that shoulde betraie him, though he was one of the twelue.