\c 4
\p
\v 1 Moreouer the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, If any shall sinne through ignorance, in any of the commandementes of the Lord, (which ought not to be done) but shall doe contrary to any of them,
\v 3 If the Priest that is anointed doe sinne (according to the sinne of the people) then shall he offer, for his sinne which hee hath sinned, a yong bullocke without blemish vnto the Lord for a sinne offring,
\v 4 And hee shall bring the bullocke vnto the dore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the Lord, and shall put his hande vpon the bullocks head, and kill the bullocke before the Lord.
\v 5 And the Priest that is anointed shall take of the bullocks blood, and bring it into the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 6 Then the Priest shall dippe his finger in the blood, and sprinkle of the blood seuen times before the Lord, before the vaile of the Sanctuarie.
\v 7 The Priest also shall put some of the blood before the Lord, vpon the hornes of the altar of sweete incense, which is in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, then shall hee powre all the rest of the blood of the bullocke at the foote of the altar of burnt offring, which is at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 8 And hee shall take away all the fat of the bullocke for the sinne offring: to wit, the fat that couereth the inwardes, and all the fatte that is about the inwardes.
\v 9 He shall take away also the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and vpon the flankes, and the kall vpon the liuer with the kidneis,
\v 10 As it was taken away from the bullock of the peace offrings, and the Priest shall burne them vpon the altar of burnt offring.
\v 11 But the skinne of the bullocke, and all his flesh, with his heade, and his legs, and his inwardes, and his dung shall he beare out.
\v 12 So he shall cary the whole bullocke out of the host vnto a cleane place, where the ashes are powred, and shall burne him on ye wood in the fire: where ye ashes are cast out, shall he be burnt.
\v 13 And if the whole Congregation of Israel shall sinne through ignorance, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the multitude, and haue done against any of the commandements of the Lord which should not be done, and haue offended:
\v 14 When the sinne which they haue committed shalbe knowen, then the Congregation shall offer a yong bullocke for the sinne, and bring him before the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
\v 15 And the Elders of the Congregation shall put their handes vpon the head of the bullocke before the Lord, and he shall kill the bullocke before the Lord.
\v 16 Then the Priest that is anointed, shall bring of the bullockes blood into the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
\v 17 And the Priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seuen times before the Lord, euen before the vaile.
\v 18 Also he shall put some of ye blood vpon the hornes of the altar, which is before the Lord, that is in the Tabernacle of the Congregation: then shall he powre all the rest, of the blood at ye foote of the altar of burnt offring, which is at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
\v 19 And he shall take all his fat from him, and burne it vpon the altar.
\v 20 And the Priest shall doe with this bullocke, as he did with the bullocke for his sinne: so shall he do with this: so the Priest shall make an atonement for them, and it shalbe forgiuen them.
\v 21 For he shall carie the bullocke without the hoste, and burne him as he burned the first bullock: for it is an offring for the sinne of the Congregation.
\v 22 When a ruler shall sinne, and do through ignorance against any of the commandements of the Lord his God, which should not be done, and shall offend,
\v 23 If one shewe vnto him his sinne, which he hath committed, the shall he bring for his offring an hee goat without blemish,
\v 24 And shall lay his hand vpon the heade of the he goate, and kill it in the place where he should kill the burnt offring before the Lord: for it is a sinne offring.
\v 25 Then the Priest shall take of the blood of the sinne offring with his finger, and put it vpon the hornes of the burnt offring altar, and shall powre the rest of his blood at the foote of the burnt offring altar,
\v 26 And shall burne all his fat vpon the altar, as the fat of the peace offring: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him, concerning his sinne, and it shalbe forgiuen him.
\v 27 Likewise if any of the people of ye lande shall sinne through ignoraunce in doing against any of the commandements of the Lord, which should not be done, and shall offend,
\v 28 If one shewe him his sinne which he hath committed, then he shall bring for his offring, a shee goate without blemish for his sinne which he hath committed,
\v 29 And he shall lay his hand vpon the head of the sinne offring, and slay the sinne offring in the place of burnt offring.
\v 30 Then the Priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it vpon the hornes of the burnt offring altar, and powre all the rest of the blood thereof at the foote of the altar,
\v 31 And shall take away all his fat, as the fat of the peace offringes is taken away, and the Priest shall burne it vpon the altar for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, and the Priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shalbe forgiuen him.
\v 32 And if he bring a lambe for his sinne offring, he shall bring a female without blemish,
\v 33 And shall lay his hand vpon the head of the sinne offring, and hee shall slay it for a sinne offring in the place where hee shoulde kill the burnt offring.
\v 34 Then the Priest shall take of the blood of the sinne offring with his finger, and put it vpon the hornes of the burnt offring altar, and shall powre al the rest of the blood thereof at the foote of the altar.
\v 35 And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fatte of the lambe of the peace offrings is taken away: then the Priest shall burne it vpon the altar with the oblations of the Lord made by fire, and the Priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his sinne that he hath committed, and it shalbe forgiuen him.