\c 15
\p
\v 1 Then came to Iesus the Scribes and Pharises, which were of Hierusalem, saying,
\v 2 Why do thy disciples transgresse the tradition of the Elders? for they wash not their hands when they eate bread.
\v 3 But he answered and said vnto them, Why doe yee also transgresse the commandement of God by your tradition?
\v 4 For God hath commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and he that curseth father or mother, let him die the death.
\v 5 But ye say, Whosoeuer shall say to father or mother, By the gift that is offered by me, thou maiest haue profite,
\v 6 Though hee honour not his father, or his mother, shalbe free: thus haue ye made the commandement of God of no aucthoritie by your tradition.
\v 7 O hypocrites, Esaias prophecied well of you, saying,
\v 8 This people draweth neere vnto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with the lips, but their heart is farre off from me.
\v 9 But in vaine they worship me, teaching for doctrines, mens precepts.
\v 10 Then hee called the multitude vnto him, and said to them, Heare and vnderstand.
\v 11 That which goeth into the mouth, defileth not the man, but that which commeth out of the mouth, that defileth the man.
\v 12 Then came his disciples, and saide vnto him, Perceiuest thou not, that the Pharises are offended in hearing this saying?
\v 13 But hee answered and saide, Euery plant which mine heauenly Father hath not planted, shalbe rooted vp.
\v 14 Let them alone, they be the blinde leaders of the blinde: and if the blinde leade ye blinde, both shall fall into the ditche.
\v 15 Then answered Peter, and said to him, Declare vnto vs this parable.
\v 16 Then said Iesus, Are ye yet without vnderstanding?
\v 17 Perceiue ye not yet, that whatsoeuer entreth into the mouth, goeth into the bellie, and is cast out into the draught?
\v 18 But those thinges which proceede out of the mouth, come from the heart, and they defile the man.
\v 19 For out of the heart come euil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false testimonies, slaunders.
\v 20 These are the things, which defile the man: but to eat with vnwashen hands, defileth not ye man.
\v 21 And Iesus went thence, and departed into the coastes of Tyrus and Sidon.
\v 22 And beholde, a woman a Cananite came out of the same coasts, and cried, saying vnto him, Haue mercie on me, O Lord, the sonne of Dauid: my daughter is miserably vexed with a deuil.
\v 23 But hee answered her not a worde. Then came to him his disciples, and besought him, saying, Sende her away, for she crieth after vs.
\v 24 But he answered, and said, I am not sent, but vnto the lost sheepe of the house of Israel.
\v 25 Yet she came, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, helpe me.
\v 26 And he answered, and said, It is not good to take the childrens bread, and to cast it to whelps.
\v 27 But she said, Trueth, Lord: yet in deede the whelpes eate of the crommes, which fall from their masters table.
\v 28 Then Iesus answered, and saide vnto her, O woman, great is thy faith: be it to thee, as thou desirest. And her daughter was made whole at that houre.
\v 29 So Iesus went away from thence, and came neere vnto the sea of Galile, and went vp into a mountaine and sate downe there.
\v 30 And great multitudes came vnto him, hauing with them, halt, blinde, dumme, maymed, and many other, and cast them downe at Iesus feete, and he healed them.
\v 31 In so much that the multitude wondered, to see the dumme speake, the maimed whole, the halt to goe, and the blinde to see: and they glorified the God of Israel.
\v 32 Then Iesus called his disciples vnto him, and said, I haue compassion on this multitude, because they haue continued with mee already three dayes, and haue nothing to eate: and I wil not let them depart fasting, least they faint in the way.
\v 33 And his disciples saide vnto him, Whence should we get so much bread in the wildernes, as should suffice so great a multitude!
\v 34 And Iesus said vnto them, How many loaues haue ye? And they said, Seuen, and a few litle fishes.
\v 35 Then he commanded the multitude to sit downe on the ground,
\v 36 And tooke the seuen loaues, and the fishes, and gaue thankes, and brake them, and gaue to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
\v 37 And they did all eate, and were sufficed: and they tooke vp of the fragments that remained, seuen baskets full.
\v 38 And they that had eaten, were foure thousand men, beside women, and litle children.
\v 39 Then Iesus sent away the multitude, and tooke ship, and came into the partes of Magdala.