\c 13
\p
\v 1 Nowe when Ioshua was olde, and striken in yeeres, the Lord said vnto him, Thou art olde and growen in age, and there remaineth exceeding much land to be possessed:
\v 2 This is the land that remaineth, all the regions of the Philistims, and all Geshuri,
\v 3 From Nilus which is in Egypt, euen vnto the borders of Ekron Northward: this is counted of the Canaanites, euen fiue Lordships of the Philistims, the Azzithites, and the Ashdodites, the Eshkelonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites, and the Auites:
\v 4 From the South, all the land of the Canaanites, and the caue that is beside the Sidonians, vnto Aphek, and to the borders of the Amorites:
\v 5 And the land of the Giblites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunne rising from Bahal-gad vnder mount Hermon, vntil one come to Hamath.
\v 6 All the inhabitants of the mountaines from Lebanon vnto Misrephothmaim, and all the Sidonians, I wil cast them out from before the children of Israel: only deuide thou it by lot vnto the Israelites, to inherite, as I haue commanded thee.
\v 7 Nowe therefore deuide this lande to inherite, vnto the nine tribes, and to the halfe tribe of Manasseh.
\v 8 For with halfe therof the Reubenites and the Gadites haue receiued their inheritance, which Moses gaue them beyond Iorden Eastward, euen as Moses the seruant of the Lord had giuen them,
\v 9 From Aroer that is on the brinke of the riuer Arnon, and from the citie that is in the mids of the riuer, and all the plaine of Medeba vnto Dibon,
\v 10 And all the cities of Sihon King of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, vnto the borders of the children of Ammon,
\v 11 And Gilead, and the borders of the Geshurites and of the Maachathites, and all mount Hermon, with all Bashan vnto Salcah:
\v 12 All the kingdome of Og in Bashan, which reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei: (who remained of the rest of the gyants) for these did Moses smite, and cast them out.
\v 13 But the children of Israel expelled not the Geshurites nor the Maachathites: but the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwell among the Israelites euen vnto this day.
\v 14 Onely vnto the tribe of Leui he gaue none inheritance, but the sacrifices of the Lord God of Israel are his inheritance, as he said vnto him.
\v 15 Moses then gaue vnto the tribe of the children of Reuben inheritance, according to their families.
\v 16 And their coast was from Aroer, that is on the brinke of the riuer Arnon, and from the citie that is in the middes of the riuer, and all the plaine which is by Medeba:
\v 17 Heshbon with all the cities thereof, that are in the plaine: Dibon and Bamoth-baal, and Bethbaal-meon:
\v 18 And Iahazah, and Kedemoth and Mephaath:
\v 19 Kiriathaim also, and Sibmah, and Zerethshahar in the mount of Emek:
\v 20 And Beth-peor, and Ashdoth-pisgah, and Beth-ieshimoth:
\v 21 And all the cities of the plaine: and all the kingdome of Sihon King of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, whome Moses smote with the Princes of Midian, Eui, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the dukes of Sihon, dwelling in the countrey.
\v 22 And Balaam the sonne of Beor the soothsayer did the children of Israel slay with the sword, among them that were slaine.
\v 23 And the border of the children of Reuben was Iorden with the coastes. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben according to their families, with the cities and their villages.
\v 24 Also Moses gaue inheritance vnto ye tribe of Gad, euen vnto the children of Gad according to their families.
\v 25 And their coastes were Iazer, and all the cities of Gilead and halfe the lande of the children of Ammon vnto Aroer, which is before Rabbah:
\v 26 And from Heshbon vnto Ramoth, Mizpeh, and Betonim: and from Mahanaim vnto the borders of Debir:
\v 27 And in the valley Beth-aram, and Bethnimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdome of Sihon King of Heshbon, vnto Iorden and the borders euen vnto the Sea coast of Cinneereth, beyond Iorden Eastward.
\v 28 This is the inheritance of the children of Gad, after their families, with the cities, and their villages.
\v 29 Also Moses gaue inheritance vnto the halfe tribe of Manasseh: and this belonged to the halfe tribe of the children of Manasseh according to their families.
\v 30 And their border was from Mahanaim, euen all Bashan, to wit, all the kingdome of Og King of Bashan, and all the townes of Iair which are in Bashan, threescore cities,
\v 31 And halfe Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were giuen vnto the children of Machir the sonne of Manasseh, to halfe of the children of Machir after their families.
\v 32 These are the heritages, which Moses did distribute in the plaine of Moab beyond Iorden, toward Iericho Eastward.
\v 33 But vnto the tribe of Leui Moses gaue none inheritance: for the Lord God of Israel is their inheritance, as he said vnto them.