\c 6
\p
\v 1 What shall we say then? Shall we continue still in sinne, that grace may abounde? God forbid.
\v 2 Howe shall we, that are dead to sinne, liue yet therein?
\v 3 Knowe ye not, that all we which haue bene baptized into Iesus Christ, haue bene baptized into his death?
\v 4 We are buried then with him by baptisme into his death, that like as Christ was raysed vp from the dead to the glorie of the Father, so we also should walke in newnesse of life.
\v 5 For if we be planted with him to the similitude of his death, euen so shall we be to the similitude of his resurrection,
\v 6 Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sinne might be destroied, that henceforth we should not serue sinne.
\v 7 For he that is dead, is freed from sinne.
\v 8 Wherefore, if we bee dead with Christ, we beleeue that we shall liue also with him,
\v 9 Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead, dieth no more: death hath no more dominion ouer him.
\v 10 For in that hee died, hee died once to sinne but in that he liueth, he liueth to God.
\v 11 Likewise thinke ye also, that ye are dead to sin, but are aliue to God in Iesus Christ our Lord.
\v 12 Let not sinne reigne therefore in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in ye lusts therof:
\v 13 Neither giue ye your members, as weapons of vnrighteousnes vnto sinne: but giue your selues vnto God, as they that are aliue from the dead, and giue your members as weapons of righteousnesse vnto God.
\v 14 For sinne shall not haue dominion ouer you: for ye are not vnder ye Lawe, but vnder grace.
\v 15 What then? shall we sinne, because we are not vnder the Law, but vnder grace? God forbid.
\v 16 Knowe ye not, that to whomsoeuer yee giue your selues as seruats to obey, his seruants ye are to whom ye obey, whether it be of sinne vnto death, or of obedience vnto righteousnesse?
\v 17 But God be thanked, that ye haue beene the seruants of sinne, but yee haue obeyed from the heart vnto the forme of the doctrine, wherunto ye were deliuered.
\v 18 Being then made free from sinne, yee are made the seruants of righteousnesse.
\v 19 I speake after the maner of man, because of the infirmitie of your flesh: for as yee haue giuen your members seruants to vncleannes and to iniquitie, to commit iniquitie, so now giue your mebers seruants vnto righteousnesse in holinesse.
\v 20 For when ye were the seruants of sinne, ye were freed from righteousnesse.
\v 21 What fruit had ye then in those things, whereof ye are nowe ashamed? For the ende of those things is death.
\v 22 But now being freed from sinne, and made seruants vnto God, ye haue your fruit in holines, and the end, euerlasting life.
\v 23 For the wages of sinne is death: but the gift of God is eternall life, through Iesus Christ our Lord.