\c 33
\p
\v 1 And as Iaakob lift vp his eyes, and looked, behold, Esau came, and with him foure hundreth men: and he deuided the children to Leah, and to Rahel, and to the two maides.
\v 2 And he put the maides, and their children formost, and Leah, and her children after, and Rahel, and Ioseph hindermost.
\v 3 So he went before them and bowed him selfe to the ground seuen times, vntill he came neere to his brother.
\v 4 Then Esau ranne to meete him, and embraced him, and fell on his necke, and kissed him, and they wept.
\v 5 And he lift vp his eyes, and sawe the women, and the children, and saide, Who are these with thee? And he answered, They are ye childre whome God of his grace hath giuen thy seruant.
\v 6 Then came the maides neere, they, and their children, and bowed themselues.
\v 7 Leah also with her children came neere and made obeysance: and after Ioseph and Rahel drew neere, and did reuerence.
\v 8 Then he said, What meanest thou by all this droue, which I met? Who answered, I haue sent it, that I may finde fauour in the sight of my lorde:
\v 9 And Esau said, I haue ynough, my brother: keepe that thou hast to thy selfe.
\v 10 But Iaakob answered, Nay, I pray thee: if I haue found grace nowe in thy sight, then receiue my present at mine hande: for I haue seene thy face, as though I had seene the face of God, because thou hast accepted me.
\v 11 I pray thee take my blessing, that is brought thee: for God hath had mercie on me, and therefore I haue all things: so he compelled him, and he tooke it.
\v 12 And he saide, Let vs take our iourney and go, and I will goe before thee.
\v 13 Then he answered him, My lord knoweth, that the children are tender, and the ewes and kine with yong vnder mine hande: and if they should ouerdriue them one day, all the flocke would die.
\v 14 Let now my lord go before his seruant, and I will driue softly, according to ye pase of ye cattel, which is before me, and as the children be able to endure, vntill I come to my lord vnto Seir.
\v 15 Then Esau said, I will leaue then some of my folke with thee. And he answered, what needeth this? let me finde grace in the sight of my lorde.
\v 16 So Esau returned, and went his way that same day vnto Seir.
\v 17 And Iaakob went forwarde towarde Succoth, and built him an house, and made boothes for his cattell: therefore he called the name of the place Succoth.
\v 18 Afterward, Iaakob came safe to Sheche a citie, which is in the lande of Canaan, when he came from Padan Aram, and pitched before the citie.
\v 19 And there he bought a parcell of ground, where hee pitched his tent, at the hande of the sonnes of Hamor Shechems father, for an hundreth pieces of money.
\v 20 And he set vp there an altar, and called it, The mightie God of Israel.