\c 20
\p
\v 1 And it came to passe, that on one of those dayes, as he taught the people in the Temple, and preached the Gospel, the hie Priests and the Scribes came vpon him with the Elders,
\v 2 And spake vnto him, saying, Tell vs by what authoritie thou doest these things, or who is hee that hath giuen thee this authoritie?
\v 3 And he answered, and sayde vnto them, I also will aske you one thing: tell me therefore:
\v 4 The baptisme of Iohn, was it from heauen, or of men?
\v 5 And they reasoned within themselues, saying, If we shall say, From heauen, he will say, Why then beleeued ye him not?
\v 6 But if we shall say, Of men, all the people will stone vs: for they be perswaded that Iohn was a Prophet.
\v 7 Therefore they answered, that they could not tell whence it was.
\v 8 Then Iesus sayd vnto them, Neither tell I you, by what authoritie I doe these things.
\v 9 Then began he to speake to ye people this parable, A certaine man planted a vineyarde, and let it forth to husbandmen: and went into a strange countrey, for a great time.
\v 10 And at the time conuenient he sent a seruant to the husbandmen, that they should giue him of the fruite of the vineyard: but the husbandmen did beate him, and sent him away emptie.
\v 11 Againe he sent yet another seruant: and they did beate him, and foule entreated him, and sent him away emptie.
\v 12 Moreouer he sent the third, and him they wounded, and cast out.
\v 13 Then sayd the Lord of the vineyard, What shall I doe? I will send my beloued sonne: it may be that they will doe reuerence, when they see him.
\v 14 But when the husbandmen sawe him, they reasoned with themselues, saying, This is the heire: come, let vs kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.
\v 15 So they cast him out of the vineyarde, and killed him. What shall the Lord of the vineyarde therefore doe vnto them?
\v 16 He will come and destroy these husbandmen, and wil giue out his vineyard to others. But when they heard it, they sayd, God forbid.
\v 17 And he beheld them, and said, What meaneth this then that is written, The stone that the builders refused, that is made the head of the corner?
\v 18 Whosoeuer shall fall vpon that stone, shall be broken: and on whomsoeuer it shall fall, it will grinde him to pouder.
\v 19 Then the hie Priests, and the Scribes the same houre went about to lay hands on him: (but they feared the people) for they perceiued that he had spoken this parable against them.
\v 20 And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should faine themselues iust men, to take him in his talke, and to deliuer him vnto the power and authoritie of the gouernour.
\v 21 And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest, and teachest right, neither doest thou accept mans person, but teachest the way of God truely.
\v 22 Is it lawfull for vs to giue Cesar tribute or no?
\v 23 But he perceiued their craftines, and sayd vnto them, Why tempt ye me?
\v 24 Shew me a penie. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered, and sayd, Cesars.
\v 25 Then he sayd vnto them, Giue then vnto Cesar the things which are Cesars, and to God those which are Gods.
\v 26 And they could not reproue his saying before the people: but they marueiled at his answere, and helde their peace.
\v 27 Then came to him certaine of the Sadduces (which denie that there is any resurrection) and they asked him,
\v 28 Saying, Master, Moses wrote vnto vs, If any mans brother die hauing a wife, and hee die without children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise vp seede vnto his brother.
\v 29 Now there were seuen brethren, and the first tooke a wife, and he dyed without children.
\v 30 And the second tooke the wife, and he dyed childelesse.
\v 31 Then the third tooke her: and so likewise the seuen dyed, and left no children.
\v 32 And last of all the woman dyed also.
\v 33 Therefore at the resurrection, whose wife of them shall she be? for seuen had her to wife.
\v 34 Then Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, The children of this world marry wiues, and are married.
\v 35 But they which shalbe counted worthy to enioy that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry wiues, neither are married.
\v 36 For they can die no more, forasmuch as they are equall vnto the Angels, and are the sonnes of God, since they are the children of the resurrection.
\v 37 And that the dead shall rise againe, euen Moses shewed it besides the bush, when he said, The Lord is the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Iacob.
\v 38 For he is not the God of the dead, but of them which liue: for all liue vnto him.
\v 39 Then certaine of the Scribes answered, and sayd, Master, thou hast well sayd.
\v 40 And after that, durst they not aske him any thing at all.
\v 41 Then sayd he vnto them, Howe say they that Christ is Dauids sonne?
\v 42 And Dauid himselfe sayth in the booke of the Psalmes, The Lord sayd vnto my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
\v 43 Till I shall make thine enemies thy footestoole.
\v 44 Seeing Dauid called him Lord, howe is he then his sonne?
\v 45 Then in the audience of all the people he sayd vnto his disciples,
\v 46 Beware of the Scribes, which willingly go in long robes, and loue salutations in the markets, and the highest seates in the assemblies, and the chiefe roomes at feastes:
\v 47 Which deuoure widowes houses, and in shewe make long prayers: These shall receiue greater damnation.