\c 5
\p
\v 1 And when he sawe the multitude, he went vp into a mountaine: and when he was set, his disciples came to him.
\v 2 And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying,
\v 3 Blessed are the poore in spirit, for theirs is the kingdome of heauen.
\v 4 Blessed are they that mourne: for they shall be comforted.
\v 5 Blessed are the meeke: for they shall inherite the earth.
\v 6 Blessed are they which hunger and thirst for righteousnes: for they shalbe filled.
\v 7 Blessed are the mercifull: for they shall obteine mercie.
\v 8 Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
\v 9 Blessed are the peace makers: for they shall be called the children of God.
\v 10 Blessed are they which suffer persecution for righteousnes sake: for theirs is the kingdome of heauen.
\v 11 Blessed shall ye be when men reuile you, and persecute you, and say all maner of euill against you for my sake, falsely.
\v 12 Reioyce and be glad, for great is your reward in heauen: for so persecuted they the Prophets which were before you.
\v 13 Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt haue lost his sauour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be troden vnder foote of men.
\v 14 Ye are the light of the world. A citie that is set on an hill, cannot be hid.
\v 15 Neither doe men light a candel, and put it vnder a bushel, but on a candlesticke, and it giueth light vnto all that are in the house.
\v 16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good workes, and glorifie your Father which is in heauen.
\v 17 Think not that I am come to destroy the Lawe, or the Prophets. I am not come to destroy them, but to fulfill them.
\v 18 For truely I say vnto you, Till heauen, and earth perish, one iote or one title of the Law shall not scape, till all things be fulfilled.
\v 19 Whosoeuer therefore shall breake one of these least commandements, and teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdome of heauen: but whosoeuer shall obserue and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdome of heauen.
\v 20 For I say vnto you, except your righteousnes exceede the righteousnes of the Scribes and Pharises, ye shall not enter into the kingdome of heauen.
\v 21 Ye haue heard that it was sayd vnto them of the olde time, Thou shalt not kill: for whosoeuer killeth shalbe culpable of iudgement.
\v 22 But I say vnto you, whosoeuer is angry with his brother vnaduisedly, shalbe culpable of iudgment. And whosoeuer sayth vnto his brother, Raca, shalbe worthy to be punished by the Councill. And whosoeuer shall say, Foole, shalbe worthy to be punished with hell fire.
\v 23 If then thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there remembrest that thy brother hath ought against thee,
\v 24 Leaue there thine offring before the altar, and goe thy way: first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.
\v 25 Agree with thine aduersarie quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him, lest thine aduersarie deliuer thee to the Iudge, and the Iudge deliuer thee to ye sergeant, and thou be cast into prison.
\v 26 Verely I say vnto thee, thou shalt not come out thence, till thou hast payed the vtmost farthing.
\v 27 Ye haue heard that it was sayd to them of olde time, Thou shalt not commit adulterie.
\v 28 But I say vnto you, that whosoeuer looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed adulterie with her already in his heart.
\v 29 Wherefore if thy right eye cause thee to offend, plucke it out, and cast it from thee: for better it is for thee, that one of thy members perish, then that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
\v 30 Also if thy right hand make thee to offend, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for better it is for thee that one of thy members perish, then that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
\v 31 It hath bene sayd also, Whosoeuer shall put away his wife, let him giue her a bill of diuorcement.
\v 32 But I say vnto you, whosoeuer shall put away his wife (except it be for fornication) causeth her to commit adulterie: and whosoeuer shall marrie her that is diuorced, committeth adulterie.
\v 33 Againe, ye haue heard that it was sayd to them of old time, Thou shalt not forsweare thy selfe, but shalt performe thine othes to the Lord.
\v 34 But I say vnto you, Sweare not at all, neither by heauen, for it is the throne of God:
\v 35 Nor yet by the earth: for it is his footestoole: neither by Hierusalem: for it is the citie of the great King.
\v 36 Neither shalt thou sweare by thine head, because thou canst not make one heare white or blacke.
\v 37 But let your communication be Yea, yea: Nay, nay. For whatsoeuer is more then these, commeth of euill.
\v 38 Ye haue heard that it hath bene sayd, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
\v 39 But I say vnto you, Resist not euill: but whosoeuer shall smite thee on thy right cheeke, turne to him the other also.
\v 40 And if any man wil sue thee at the law, and take away thy coate, let him haue thy cloke also.
\v 41 And whosoeuer will compell thee to goe a mile, goe with him twaine.
\v 42 Giue to him that asketh, and from him that would borowe of thee, turne not away.
\v 43 Ye haue heard that it hath bin said, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour, and hate your enemie.
\v 44 But I say vnto you, Loue your enemies: blesse them that curse you: doe good to them that hate you, and pray for them which hurt you, and persecute you,
\v 45 That ye may be the children of your father that is in heauen: for he maketh his sunne to arise on the euill, and the good, and sendeth raine on the iust, and vniust.
\v 46 For if ye loue them, which loue you, what rewarde shall you haue? Doe not the Publicanes euen the same?
\v 47 And if ye be friendly to your brethren onely, what singular thing doe ye? doe not euen the Publicanes likewise?
\v 48 Ye shall therefore be perfit, as your Father which is in heauen, is perfite.