\c 24
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Commande the children of Israel that they bring vnto thee pure oyle oliue beaten, for the light, to cause ye lampes to burne continually.
\v 3 Without the vaile of the Testimonie, in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, shall Aaron dresse them, both euen and morning before the Lord alwayes: this shalbe a lawe for euer through your generations.
\v 4 He shall dresse the lampes vpon the pure Candlesticke before the Lord perpetually.
\v 5 Also thou shalt take fine floure, and bake twelue cakes thereof: two tenth deales shalbe in one cake.
\v 6 And thou shalt set them in two rowes, six in a rowe vpon the pure table before the Lord.
\v 7 Thou shalt also put pure incense vpon the rowes, that in steade of the bread it may bee for a remembrance, and an offering made by fire to the Lord.
\v 8 Euery Sabbath hee shall put them in rowes before the Lord euermore, receiuing them of the children of Israel for an euerlasting couenant.
\v 9 And the bread shalbe Aarons and his sonnes, and they shall eate it in the holie place: for it is most holie vnto him of the offrings of the Lord made by fire by a perpetuall ordinance.
\v 10 And there went out among the children of Israel the sonne of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an Egyptian: and this sonne of the Israelitish woman, and a man of Israel stroue together in the hoste.
\v 11 So the Israelitish womans sonne blasphemed the name of the Lord, and cursed, and they brought him vnto Moses (his mothers name also was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan)
\v 12 And they put him in warde, till he tolde them the minde of the Lord.
\v 13 Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 14 Bring the blasphemer without the hoste, and let all that heard him, put their handes vpon his head, and let all the Congregation stone him.
\v 15 And thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, Whosoeuer curseth his God, shall beare his sinne.
\v 16 And he that blasphemeth the name of the Lord, shalbe put to death: all the Congregation shall stone him to death: aswell the stranger, as he that is borne in the lande: when he blasphemeth the name of the Lord, let him beslaine.
\v 17 He also that killeth any man, he shall be put to death.
\v 18 And he that killeth a beast, he shall restore it, beast for beast.
\v 19 Also if a man cause any blemish in his neighbour: as he hath done, so shall it be done to him.
\v 20 Breache for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: such a blemish as he hath made in any, such shalbe repayed to him.
\v 21 And he that killeth a beast shall restore it: but he that killeth a man shall be slaine.
\v 22 Ye shall haue one lawe: it shalbe aswel for the stranger as for one borne in the countrey: for I am the Lord your God.
\v 23 Then Moses tolde the children of Israel, and they brought the blasphemer out of the hoste, and stoned him with stones: so the children of Israel did as the Lord had commanded Moses.