\c 15
\p
\v 1 Moreouer the Lord spake vnto Moses, and to Aaron, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Whosoeuer hath an issue from his flesh, is vncleane, because of his issue.
\v 3 And this shalbe his vncleannes in his issue: when his flesh auoydeth his issue, or if his flesh be stopped from his issue, this is his vncleannes.
\v 4 Euery bed whereon he lyeth that hath the issue, shall be vncleane, and euery thing whereon he sitteth, shalbe vncleane.
\v 5 Whosoeuer also toucheth his bed, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shall be vncleane vntill the euen.
\v 6 And he that sitteth on any thing, whereon he sate that hath the issue, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vntill the euen.
\v 7 Also he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the issue, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vntil the euen.
\v 8 If he also, that hath the issue, spit vpon him that is cleane, he shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vntill the euen.
\v 9 And what saddle soeuer he rideth vpon, that hath the issue, shalbe vncleane,
\v 10 And whosoeuer toucheth any thing that was vnder him, shall be vncleane vnto the euen: and he that beareth those things, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shall be vncleane vntill the euen.
\v 11 Likewise whomesoeuer hee toucheth that hath the issue (and hath not washed his handes in water) shall wash his clothes and wash himselfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vntill the euen.
\v 12 And the vessel of earth that he toucheth, which hath the issue, shalbe broken: and euery vessel of wood shalbe rinsed in water.
\v 13 But if he that hath an issue, be cleansed of his issue, then shall he count him seuen dayes for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and wash his flesh in pure water: so shall he be cleane.
\v 14 Then the eight day he shall take vnto him two Turtle doues or two yong pigeons, and come before the Lord at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and shall giue them vnto the Priest.
\v 15 And the Priest shall make of the one of them a sinne offring, and of the other a burnt offering: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him before the Lord, for his issue.
\v 16 Also if any mans issue of seede depart from him, he shall wash all his flesh in water, and be vncleane vntill the euen.
\v 17 And euery garment, and euery skinne whereupon shalbe issue of seede, shall be euen washed with water, and be vncleane vnto the euen.
\v 18 If he that hath an issue of seede, do lie with a woman, they shall both wash themselues with water, and be vncleane vntill the euen.
\v 19 Also when a woman shall haue an issue, and her issue in her flesh shalbe blood, she shalbe put apart seuen dayes: and whosoeuer toucheth her, shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
\v 20 And whatsoeuer she lieth vpon in her separation, shalbe vncleane, and euery thing that she sitteth vpon, shalbe vncleane.
\v 21 Whosoeuer also toucheth her bedde, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe with water, and shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
\v 22 And whosoeuer toucheth any thing that she sate vpon, shall wash his clothes, and wash him selfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vnto the euen:
\v 23 So that whether he touche her bed, or any thing whereon shee hath sit, he shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
\v 24 And if a man lye with her, and the flowers of her separation touch him, he shalbe vncleane seuen dayes, and all the whole bed whereon he lieth, shalbe vncleane.
\v 25 Also when a womans issue of blood runneth long time besides the time of her floures, or when she hath an issue, longer then her floures, all the dayes of the issue of her vncleannesse shee shalbe vncleane, as in the time of her floures.
\v 26 Euery bed whereon shee lyeth (as long as her issue lasteth) shalbe to her as her bed of her separation: and whatsoeuer she sitteth vpon, shalbe vncleane, as her vncleannes whe she is put apart.
\v 27 And whosoeuer toucheth these things, shall be vncleane, and shall wash his clothes, and wash him selfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
\v 28 But if she be clensed of her issue, then shee shall count her seuen dayes, and after, shee shall be cleane.
\v 29 And in the eight day shee shall take vnto her two Turtles or two yong pigeons, and bring them vnto the Priest at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 30 And the Priest shall make of ye one a sinne offring, and of the other a burnt offring, and the Priest shall make an atonement for her before the Lord, for the issue of her vncleannes.
\v 31 Thus shall yee separate the children of Israel from their vncleannes, that they dye not in their vncleannesse, if they defile my Tabernacle that is among them.
\v 32 This is the lawe of him that hath an issue, and of him from whome goeth an issue of seede whereby he is defiled:
\v 33 Also of her that is sicke of her floures, and of him that hath a running issue, whether it bee man or woman, and of him that lyeth with her which is vncleane.