\c 31
\p
\v 1 To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David. In thee, O Lord, haue I put my trust: let mee neuer be confounded: deliuer me in thy righteousnesse.
\v 2 Bowe downe thine eare to me: make haste to deliuer mee: be vnto me a stronge rocke, and an house of defence to saue me.
\v 3 For thou art my rocke and my fortresse: therefore for thy Names sake direct mee and guide me.
\v 4 Drawe mee out of the nette, that they haue layde priuilie for mee: for thou art my strength.
\v 5 Into thine hand I commend my spirit: for thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of trueth.
\v 6 I haue hated them that giue them selues to deceitfull vanities: for I trust in the Lord.
\v 7 I wil be glad and reioyce in thy mercie: for thou hast seene my trouble: thou hast knowen my soule in aduersities,
\v 8 And thou hast not shut me vp in the hand of the enemie, but hast set my feete at large.
\v 9 Haue mercie vpon mee, O Lord: for I am in trouble: mine eye, my soule and my bellie are consumed with griefe.
\v 10 For my life is wasted with heauinesse, and my yeeres with mourning: my strength faileth for my paine, and my bones are consumed.
\v 11 I was a reproch among all mine enemies, but specially among my neighbours: and a feare to mine acquaintance, who seeing me in the streete, fled from me.
\v 12 I am forgotten, as a dead man out of minde: I am like a broken vessell.
\v 13 For I haue heard the rayling of great men: feare was on euery side, while they conspired together against mee, and consulted to take my life.
\v 14 But I trusted in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God.
\v 15 My times are in thine hande: deliuer mee from the hande of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.
\v 16 Make thy face to shine vpon thy seruant, and saue me through thy mercie.
\v 17 Let me not be confounded, O Lord: for I haue called vpon thee: let the wicked bee put to confusion, and to silence in the graue.
\v 18 Let the lying lips be made dumme, which cruelly, proudly and spitefully speake against the righteous.
\v 19 Howe great is thy goodnesse, which thou hast layde vp for them, that feare thee! and done to them, that trust in thee, euen before the sonnes of men!
\v 20 Thou doest hide them priuily in thy presence from the pride of men: thou keepest them secretly in thy Tabernacle from the strife of tongues.
\v 21 Blessed be the Lord: for hee hath shewed his marueilous kindenesse toward me in a strong citie.
\v 22 Though I said in mine haste, I am cast out of thy sight, yet thou heardest the voyce of my prayer, when I cryed vnto thee.
\v 23 Loue ye the Lord all his Saintes: for the Lord preserueth the faithfull, and rewardeth abundantly the proud doer.
\v 24 All ye that trust in the Lord, be strong, and he shall establish your heart.