\c 1
\p
\v 1 In the beginning God created the heauen and the earth.
\v 2 And the earth was without forme and void, and darkenesse was vpon the deepe, and the Spirit of God mooued vpon the waters.
\v 3 Then God said, Let there be light: And there was light.
\v 4 And God saw the light that it was good, and God separated the light from the darkenes.
\v 5 And God called the Light, Day, and the darkenes, he called Night. So the euening and the morning were the first day.
\v 6 Againe God said, Let there be a firmament in the mids of the waters: and let it separate the waters from the waters.
\v 7 Then God made the firmament, and separated the waters, which were vnder the firmament, from the waters which were aboue the firmament: and it was so.
\v 8 And God called the firmament Heauen. So the Euening and the morning were the second day.
\v 9 God said againe, Let the waters vnder the heauen be gathered into one place, and let the dry land appeare. and it was so.
\v 10 And God called the dry land, Earth, and he called the gathering together of the waters, Seas: and God saw that it was good.
\v 11 Then God said, Let the earth bud forth the bud of the herbe, that seedeth seed, the fruitfull tree, which beareth fruite according to his kinde, which hath his seede in it selfe vpon the earth: and it was so.
\v 12 And the earth brought foorth the bud of the herbe, that seedeth seede according to his kind, also the tree that beareth fruit, which hath his seed in it selfe according to his kinde: and God saw that it was good.
\v 13 So the euening and the morning were the third day.
\v 14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heauen, to separate the day from the night, and let them be for signes, and for seasons, and for dayes and yeeres.
\v 15 And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heauen to giue light vpon the earth: and it was so.
\v 16 God then made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesse light to rule the night: he made also the starres.
\v 17 And God set them in the firmament of the heauen, to shine vpon the earth,
\v 18 And to rule in the day, and in the night, and to separate the light from the darkenesse: and God saw that it was good.
\v 19 So the euening and the morning were the fourth day.
\v 20 Afterward God said, Let the waters bring foorth in abundance euery creeping thing that hath life: and let the foule flie vpon the earth in the open firmament of the heauen.
\v 21 Then God created the great whales, and euery thing liuing and mouing, which the waters brought foorth in abundance according to their kinde, and euery fethered foule according to his kinde: and God sawe that it was good.
\v 22 Then God blessed them, saying, Bring foorth fruite and multiplie, and fill the waters in the seas, and let the foule multiplie in the earth.
\v 23 So the euening and the morning were the fifte day.
\v 24 Moreouer God said, Let the earth bring foorth the liuing thing according to his kinde, cattel, and that which creepeth, and the beast of the earth, according to his kinde. and it was so.
\v 25 And God made the beast of the earth according to his kinde, and the cattell according to his kinde, and euery creeping thing of the earth according to his kind: and God saw that it was good.
\v 26 Furthermore God said, Let vs make man in our image according to our likenes, and let them rule ouer the fish of the sea, and ouer the foule of the heauen, and ouer the beastes, and ouer all the earth, and ouer euery thing that creepeth and moueth on the earth.
\v 27 Thus God created the man in his image: in the image of God created he him: he created them male and female.
\v 28 And God blessed them, and God said to them, Bring forth fruite and multiplie, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule ouer the fish of the sea, and ouer the foule of the heauen, and ouer euery beast that moueth vpon the earth.
\v 29 And God said, Beholde, I haue giuen vnto you euery herbe bearing seede, which is vpon al the earth, and euery tree, wherein is the fruite of a tree bearing seede: that shall be to you for meate.
\v 30 Likewise to euery beast of the earth, and to euery foule of the heauen, and to euery thing that moueth vpon the earth, which hath life in it selfe, euery greene herbe shall be for meate. and it was so.
\v 31 And God sawe all that he had made, and loe, it was very good. So the euening and the morning were the sixt day.