\c 1
\p
\v 1 Paul and Timotheus the seruants of IESVS CHRIST, to all the Saintes in Christ Iesus which are at Philippi, with the Bishops, and Deacons:
\v 2 Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 3 I thanke my God, hauing you in perfect memorie,
\v 4 (Alwayes in all my praiers for all you, praying with gladnesse)
\v 5 Because of the fellowship which ye haue in the Gospel, from the first day vnto nowe.
\v 6 And I am persuaded of this same thing, that he that hath begunne this good worke in you, wil perfourme it vntill the day of Iesus Christ,
\v 7 As it becommeth me so to iudge of you all, because I haue you in remembrance that both in my bands, and in my defence, and confirmation of the Gospell you all were partakers of my grace.
\v 8 For God is my recorde, howe I long after you all from the very heart roote in Iesus Christ.
\v 9 And this I pray, that your loue may abound, yet more and more in knowledge, and in all iudgement,
\v 10 That ye may alowe those things which are best, that ye may be pure, and without offence vntill the day of Christ,
\v 11 Filled with the fruites of righteousnesse, which are by Iesus Christ vnto the glorie and praise of God.
\v 12 I would ye vnderstood, brethren, that the things which haue come vnto me, are turned rather to the furthering of the Gospell,
\v 13 So that my bandes in Christ are famous throughout all the iudgement hall, and in all other places,
\v 14 In so much that many of the brethren in the Lord are boldened through my bandes, and dare more frankely speake the word.
\v 15 Some preache. Christ euen through enuie and strife, and some also of good will.
\v 16 The one part preacheth Christ of contention and not purely, supposing to adde more affliction to my bandes.
\v 17 But the others of loue, knowing that I am set for the defence of the Gospell.
\v 18 What then? yet Christ is preached all maner wayes, whether it be vnder a pretence, or syncerely: and I therein ioye: yea and will ioye.
\v 19 For I knowe that this shall turne to my saluation through your prayer, and by the helpe of the Spirit of Iesus Christ,
\v 20 As I feruently looke for, and hope, that in nothing I shalbe ashamed, but that with all confidence, as alwayes, so nowe Christ shalbe magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death.
\v 21 For Christ is to me both in life, and in death aduantage.
\v 22 And whether to liue in the flesh were profitable for me, and what to chuse I knowe not.
\v 23 For I am distressed betweene both, desiring to be loosed and to be with Christ, which is best of all.
\v 24 Neuerthelesse, to abide in the flesh, is more needefull for you.
\v 25 And this am I sure of, that I shall abide, and with you all continue, for your furtherance and ioy of your faith,
\v 26 That ye may more aboundantly reioyce in IESVS CHRIST for me, by my comming to you againe.
\v 27 Onely let your conuersation be, as it becommeth the Gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you, or els be absent, I may heare of your matters that ye continue in one Spirit, and in one mind, fighting together through the faith of the Gospel.
\v 28 And in nothing feare your aduersaries, which is to them a token of perdition, and to you of saluation, and that of God.
\v 29 For vnto you it is giuen for Christ, that not onely ye should beleeue in him, but also suffer for his sake,
\v 30 Hauing the same fight, which ye sawe in me, and nowe heare to be in me.