\c 3
\p
\v 1 Then arose Eliashib the hie Priest with his brethren the Priestes, and they buylt the sheepegate: they repayred it, and set vp the doores thereof: euen vnto the tower of Meah repayred they it, and vnto the tower of Hananeel.
\v 2 And next vnto him buylded the men of Iericho, and beside him Zaccur the sonne of Imri.
\v 3 But the fish port did the sonnes of Senaah buylde, which also layde the beames thereof, and set on the doores thereof, the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof.
\v 4 And next vnto them fortified Merimoth, the sonne of Vrijah, the sonne of Hakkoz: and next vnto them fortified Meshullam, the sonne of Berechiah, the sonne of Meshezabeel: and next vnto them fortified Zadok, the sonne of Baana:
\v 5 And next vnto them fortified the Tekoites: but the great men of them put not their neckes to the worke of their lordes.
\v 6 And the gate of the olde fishpoole fortified Iehoiada the sonne of Paseah, and Meshullam the sonne of Besodaiah: they laid the beames thereof, and set on the doores thereof, and the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof.
\v 7 Next vnto them also fortified Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Iadon the Meronothite, men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, vnto the throne of the Duke, which was beyond the Riuer.
\v 8 Next vnto him fortified Vzziel the sonne of Harhohiah of the golde smithes: next vnto him also fortified Hananiah, the sonne of Harakkahim, and they repayred Ierusalem vnto the broad wall.
\v 9 Also next vnto them fortified Rephaiah, the sonne of Hur, the ruler of the halfe part of Ierusalem.
\v 10 And next vnto him fortified Iedaiah the sonne of Harumaph, euen ouer against his house: and next vnto him fortified Hattush, the sonne of Hashabniah.
\v 11 Malchiiah the sonne of Harim, and Hashub the sonne of Pahath Moab fortified the seconde porcion, and the tower of the fornaces.
\v 12 Next vnto him also fortified Shallum, the sonne of Halloesh, the ruler of the halfe part of Ierusalem, he, and his daughters.
\v 13 The valley gate fortified Hanum, and the inhabitants of Zanuah: they buylt it, and set on the doores thereof, the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof, euen a thousand cubites on the wall vnto the dung porte.
\v 14 But the dung port fortified Malchiah, the sonne of Rechab, the ruler of the fourth part of Beth-haccarem: he built it, and set on the doores thereof, the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof.
\v 15 But the gate of the fountaine fortified Shallun, the sonne of Col-hozeh, the ruler of the fourth part of Mizpah: he builded it, and couered it, and set on the doores thereof, the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof, and the wall vnto the fishpoole of Shelah by the Kings garden, and vnto the steppes that goe downe from the citie of Dauid.
\v 16 After him fortified Nehemiah the sonne of Azbuk, the ruler of ye halfe part of Beth-zur, vntill the otherside ouer against the sepulchres of Dauid, and to the fishpoole that was repaired, and vnto the house of the mightie.
\v 17 After him fortified the Leuites, Rehum the sonne of Bani, and next vnto him fortified Hashabiah the ruler of the halfe part of Keilah in his quarter.
\v 18 After him fortified their brethren: Bauai, the sonne of Henadad the ruler of the halfe part of Keilah:
\v 19 And next vnto him fortified Ezer, the sonne of Ieshua the ruler of Mizpah, the other portion ouer against the going vp to the corner of the armour.
\v 20 After him was earnest Baruch the sonne of Zacchai, and fortified another portion from the corner vnto the doore of the house of Eliashib the hie Priest.
\v 21 After him fortified Merimoth, the sonne of Vriiah, the sonne of Hakkoz, another portion from the doore of the house of Eliashib, euen as long as the house of Eliashib extended.
\v 22 After him also fortified the Priests, the men of the playne.
\v 23 After them fortified Beniamin, and Hasshub ouer against their house: after him fortified Azariah, the sonne of Maaseiah, the sonne of Ananiah, by his house.
\v 24 After him fortified Binnui, the sonne of Henadad another portion, from the house of Azariah vnto the turning and vnto the corner.
\v 25 Palal, the sonne of Vzai, from ouer against the corner, and the high tower, that lieth out from the Kings house, which is beside the court of the prison. After him, Pedaiah, the sonne of Parosh.
\v 26 And the Nethinims they dwelt in ye fortresse vnto the place ouer against the water gate, Eastwarde, and to the tower that lyeth out.
\v 27 After him fortified the Tekoites another portion ouer against the great tower, that lyeth out, euen vnto the wall of the fortresse.
\v 28 From aboue the horsegate forth fortified the Priests, euery one ouer against his house.
\v 29 After them fortified Zadok the sonne of Immer ouer against his house: and after him fortified Shemaiah, the sonne of Shechadiah the keeper of the East gate.
\v 30 After him fortified Hananiah, the sonne of Shelemiah, and Hanun, the sonne of Zalaph, the sixt, another portion after him fortified Meshullam, the sonne of Berechiah, ouer against his chamber.
\v 31 After him fortified Malchiah the goldesmiths sonne, vntil the house of the Nethinims, and of ye marchants ouer against the gate Miphkad, and to the chamber in the corner.
\v 32 And betweene the chamber of the corner vnto the sheepegate fortified the goldesmithes and the marchantes.