\c 1
\p
\v 1 Paul a seruant of Iesus Christ called to be an Apostle, put apart to preache the Gospel of God,
\v 2 (Which he had promised afore by his Prophetes in the holy Scriptures)
\v 3 Concerning his Sonne Iesus Christ our Lord (which was made of the seede of Dauid according to the flesh,
\v 4 And declared mightily to be the Sonne of God, touching the Spirit of sanctification by the resurrection from the dead)
\v 5 By whom we haue receiued grace and Apostleship (that obedience might be giuen vnto ye faith) for his Name among al ye Gentiles,
\v 6 Among whom ye be also the called of Iesus Christ:
\v 7 To all you that be at Rome beloued of God, called to be Saints: Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
\v 8 First I thanke my God through Iesus Christ for you all, because your faith is published throughout the whole world.
\v 9 For God is my witnesse (whom I serue in my spirit in the Gospel of his Sonne) that without ceasing I make mention of you
\v 10 Alwayes in my prayers, beseeching that by some meanes, one time or other I might haue a prosperous iourney by the will of God, to come vnto you.
\v 11 For I long to see you, that I might bestowe among you some spirituall gift, that you might be strengthened:
\v 12 That is, that I might be comforted together with you, through our mutuall faith, both yours and mine.
\v 13 Now my brethren, I would that ye should not be ignorant, how that I haue oftentimes purposed to come vnto you (but haue bene let hitherto) that I might haue some fruite also among you, as I haue among the other Gentiles.
\v 14 I am detter both to the Grecians, and to the Barbarians, both to the wise men and vnto the vnwise.
\v 15 Therefore, as much as in me is, I am readie to preach ye Gospel to you also that are at Rome.
\v 16 For I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God vnto saluation to euery one that beleeueth, to the Iewe first, and also to the Grecian.
\v 17 For by it the righteousnesse of God is reueiled from faith to faith: as it is written, The iust shall liue by faith.
\v 18 For the wrath of God is reueiled from heauen against all vngodlinesse, and vnrighteousnesse of men, which withhold the trueth in vnrighteousnesse.
\v 19 Forasmuch as that, which may be knowe of God, is manifest in them: for God hath shewed it vnto them.
\v 20 For the inuisible things of him, that is, his eternal power and Godhead, are seene by ye creation of the worlde, being considered in his workes, to the intent that they should be without excuse:
\v 21 Because that when they knewe God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankefull, but became vaine in their thoughtes, and their foolish heart was full of darkenesse.
\v 22 When they professed themselues to be wise, they became fooles.
\v 23 For they turned the glorie of the incorruptible God to the similitude of the image of a corruptible man, and of birdes, and foure footed beastes, and of creeping things.
\v 24 Wherefore also God gaue them vp to their hearts lusts, vnto vncleannesse, to defile their owne bodies betweene themselues:
\v 25 Which turned the trueth of God vnto a lie, and worshipped and serued the creature, forsaking the Creator, which is blessed for euer, Amen.
\v 26 For this cause God gaue them vp vnto vile affections: for euen their women did change the naturall vse into that which is against nature.
\v 27 And likewise also the men left the naturall vse of the woman, and burned in their lust one toward another, and man with man wrought filthinesse, and receiued in themselues such recompence of their errour, as was meete.
\v 28 For as they regarded not to acknowledge God, euen so God deliuered them vp vnto a reprobate minde, to doe those things which are not conuenient,
\v 29 Being full of all vnrighteousnesse, fornication, wickednes, couetousnes, maliciousnes, full of enuie, of murder, of debate, of deceit, taking all things in the euill part, whisperers,
\v 30 Backbiters, haters of God, doers of wrong, proude, boasters, inuenters of euil things, disobedient to parents, without vnderstanding, couenant breakers, without naturall affection, such as can neuer be appeased, mercilesse.
\v 31 Which men, though they knew ye Lawe of God, how that they which comit such things are worthie of death, yet not onely do the same, but also fauour them that doe them.