\c 13
\p
\v 1 And as he went out of the Temple, one of his disciples said vnto him, Master, see what maner stones, and what maner buildings are here.
\v 2 Then Iesus answered and saide vnto him, Seest thou these great buildings? there shall not be left one stone vpon a stone, that shall not be throwen downe.
\v 3 And as he sate on the mount of Oliues, ouer against the Temple, Peter, and Iames, and Iohn, and Andrew asked him secretly,
\v 4 Tell vs, when shall these things be? and what shalbe the signe when all these things shalbe fulfilled?
\v 5 And Iesus answered them, and began to say, Take heede lest any man deceiue you.
\v 6 For many shall come in my Name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceiue many.
\v 7 Furthermore when ye shall heare, of warres, and rumours of warres, be ye not troubled: for such things must needes be: but the end shall not be yet.
\v 8 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdome against kingdome, and there shalbe earthquakes in diuers quarters, and there shalbe famine and troubles: these are the beginnings of sorowes.
\v 9 But take ye heede to your selues: for they shall deliuer you vp to the Councils, and to the Synagogues: ye shalbe beaten, and brought before rulers and Kings for my sake, for a testimoniall vnto them.
\v 10 And the Gospel must first be published among all nations.
\v 11 But when they leade you, and deliuer you vp, be not carefull before hand, neither studie what ye shall say: but what is giuen you at the same time, that speake: for it is not ye that speake, but the holy Ghost.
\v 12 Yea, and the brother shall deliuer the brother to death, and the father the sonne, and the children shall rise against their parents, and shall cause them to die.
\v 13 And ye shall be hated of all men for my Names sake: but whosoeuer shall endure vnto the end, he shalbe saued.
\v 14 Moreouer, when ye shall see the abomination of desolation (spoken of by Daniel the Prophet) set where it ought not, (let him that readeth, consider it) then let them that be in Iudea, flee into the mountaines,
\v 15 And let him that is vpon the house, not come downe into the house, neither enter therein, to fetch any thing out of his house.
\v 16 And let him that is in the fielde, not turne backe againe to take his garment.
\v 17 Then wo shalbe to the that are with child, and to them that giue sucke in those dayes.
\v 18 Pray therefore that your flight be not in the winter.
\v 19 For those dayes shalbe such tribulation, as was not from the beginning of ye creation which God created vnto this time, neither shalbe.
\v 20 And except that the Lord had shortened those dayes, no flesh shoulde be saued: but for the elects sake, which he hath chosen, he hath shortened those dayes.
\v 21 Then if any man say to you, Loe, here is Christ, or, lo, he is there, beleeue it not.
\v 22 For false Christes shall rise, and false prophets, and shall shewe signes and wonders, to deceiue if it were possible the very elect.
\v 23 But take ye heede: beholde, I haue shewed you all things before.
\v 24 Moreouer in those dayes, after that tribulation, the sunne shall waxe darke, and ye moone shall not giue her light,
\v 25 And the starres of heauen shall fall: and the powers which are in heauen, shall shake.
\v 26 And then shall they see the Sonne of man comming in ye cloudes, with great power and glory.
\v 27 And he shall then send his Angels, and shall gather together his elect from the foure windes, and from the vtmost part of the earth to the vtmost part of heauen.
\v 28 Nowe learne a parable of the figge tree. When her bough is yet tender, and it bringeth foorth leaues, ye knowe that sommer is neere.
\v 29 So in like maner, when ye see these things come to passe, knowe that the kingdom of God is neere, euen at the doores.
\v 30 Verely I say vnto you, that this generation shall not passe, till all these things be done.
\v 31 Heauen and earth shall passe away, but my woordes shall not passe away.
\v 32 But of that day and houre knoweth no man, no, not the Angels which are in heauen, neither the Sonne himselfe, but the Father.
\v 33 Take heede: watch, and praie: for yee knowe not when the time is.
\v 34 For the Sonne of man is as a man going into a strange countrey, and leaueth his house, and giueth authoritie to his seruaunts, and to euery man his woorke, and commandeth the porter to watch.
\v 35 Watch ye therefore, (for ye know not whe ye master of the house will come, at eue, or at midnight, at the cocke crowing, or in the dawning,)
\v 36 Least if he come suddenly, he should finde you sleeping.
\v 37 And those things that I say vnto you, I say vnto all men, Watch.