\c 4
\p
\v 1 And Iesus full of the holy Ghost returned from Iordan, and was led by that Spirit into the wildernes,
\v 2 And was there fourtie dayes tempted of the deuil, and in those dayes he did eate nothing: but when they were ended, he afterward was hungry.
\v 3 Then the deuil saide vnto him, If thou be the Sonne of God, commaund this stone that it be made bread.
\v 4 But Iesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall not liue by bread only, but by euery word of God.
\v 5 Then the deuill tooke him vp into an high mountaine, and shewed him all the kingdomes of the world, in the twinkeling of an eye.
\v 6 And the deuill saide vnto him, All this power will I giue thee, and the glory of those kingdomes: for that is deliuered to mee: and to whomsoeuer I will, I giue it.
\v 7 If thou therefore wilt worship mee, they shalbe all thine.
\v 8 But Iesus answered him, and saide, Hence from mee, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him alone thou shalt serue.
\v 9 Then hee brought him to Hierusalem, and set him on a pinacle of the Temple, and said vnto him, If thou be the Sonne of God, cast thy selfe downe from hence,
\v 10 For it is written, That hee will giue his Angels charge ouer thee to keepe thee:
\v 11 And with their handes they shall lift thee vp, least at any time thou shouldest dash thy foote against a stone.
\v 12 And Iesus answered, and said vnto him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
\v 13 And when the deuil had ended all the tentation, he departed from him for a litle season.
\v 14 And Iesus returned by the power of the spirite into Galile: and there went a fame of him throughout all the region round about.
\v 15 For he taught in their Synagogues, and was honoured of all men.
\v 16 And hee came to Nazareth where hee had bene brought vp, and (as his custome was) went into the Synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stoode vp to reade.
\v 17 And there was deliuered vnto him the booke of the Prophet Esaias: and when hee had opened the booke, hee founde the place, where it was written,
\v 18 The Spirit of the Lord is vpon mee, because he hath anoynted me, that I should preach the Gospel to the poore: he hath sent mee, that I should heale the broken hearted, that I should preach deliuerance to the captiues, and recouering of sight to the blinde, that I should set at libertie them that are bruised:
\v 19 And that I should preache the acceptable yeere of the Lord.
\v 20 And hee closed the booke, and gaue it againe to the minister, and sate downe: and the eyes of all that were in the Synagogue were fastened on him.
\v 21 Then he began to say vnto them, This day is the Scripture fulfilled in your eares.
\v 22 And all bare him witnes, and wondered at the gracious wordes, which proceeded out of his mouth, and said, Is not this Iosephs sonne?
\v 23 Then he said vnto them, Ye will surely say vnto mee this prouerbe, Physician, heale thy selfe: whatsoeuer we haue heard done in Capernaum, doe it here likewise in thine owne countrey.
\v 24 And he saide, Verely I say vnto you, No Prophet is accepted in his owne countrey.
\v 25 But I tell you of a trueth, many widowes were in Israel in the dayes of Elias, when heauen was shut three yeres and sixe moneths, when great famine was throughout all the land:
\v 26 But vnto none of them was Elias sent, saue into Sarepta, a citie of Sidon, vnto a certaine widowe.
\v 27 Also many lepers were in Israel, in the time of Eliseus the Prophet: yet none of them was made cleane, sauing Naaman the Syrian.
\v 28 Then all that were in the Synagogue, when they heard it, were filled with wrath,
\v 29 And rose vp, and thrust him out of the citie, and led him vnto the edge of the hil, whereon their citie was built, to cast him downe headlong.
\v 30 But he passed through the middes of them, and went his way,
\v 31 And came downe into Capernaum a citie of Galile, and there taught them on the Sabbath dayes.
\v 32 And they were astonied at his doctrine: for his worde was with authoritie.
\v 33 And in the Synagogue there was a man which had a spirit of an vncleane deuill, which cryed with a loude voyce,
\v 34 Saying, Oh, what haue we to doe with thee, thou Iesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy vs? I know who thou art, euen the holy one of God.
\v 35 And Iesus rebuked him, saying, Holde thy peace, and come out of him. Then the deuill throwing him in the middes of them, came out of him, and hurt him nothing at all.
\v 36 So feare came on them all, and they spake among themselues, saying, What thing is this: for with authoritie and power he commaundeth the foule spirits, and they come out?
\v 37 And ye fame of him spred abroad throughout all the places of the countrey round about.
\v 38 And he rose vp, and came out of the Synagogue, and entred into Simons house. And Simons wiues mother was taken with a great feuer, and they required him for her.
\v 39 Then he stoode ouer her, and rebuked the feuer, and it left her, and immediatly she arose, and ministred vnto them.
\v 40 Now at the sunne setting, all they that had sicke folkes of diuers diseases, brought them vnto him, and he layd his hands on euery one of them, and healed them.
\v 41 And deuils also came out of many, crying, and saying, Thou art that Christ that Sonne of God: but he rebuked them, and suffered them not to say that they knewe him to be that Christ.
\v 42 And when it was day, he departed, and went foorth into a desart place, and the people sought him, and came to him, and kept him that he should not depart from them.
\v 43 But he sayd vnto them, Surely I must also preach the kingdome of God to other cities: for therefore am I sent.
\v 44 And hee preached in the Synagogues of Galile.