\c 25
\p
\v 1 When there shall be strife betweene men, and they shall come vnto iudgement, and sentence shall be giuen vpon them, and the righteous shall be iustified, and the wicked condemned,
\v 2 Then if so be the wicked be worthy to bee beaten, the iudge shall cause him to lie downe, and to be beaten before his face, according to his trespasse, vnto a certaine nomber.
\v 3 Fortie stripes shall he cause him to haue and not past, lest if he should exceede and beate him aboue that with many stripes, thy brother should appeare despised in thy sight.
\v 4 Thou shalt not mousell the oxe that treadeth out the corne.
\v 5 If brethren dwell together, and one of them dye and haue no sonne, the wife of the dead shall not marry without: that is, vnto a stranger, but his kinseman shall goe in vnto her, and take her to wife, and doe the kinsemans office to her.
\v 6 And the first borne which she beareth, shall succeede in the name of his brother which is dead, that his name be not put out of Israel.
\v 7 And if the man will not take his kinsewoman, then let his kinsewoman goe vp to the gate vnto the Elders, and say, My kinsman refuseth to rayse vp vnto his brother a name in Israel: hee will not doe the office of a kinsman vnto me.
\v 8 Then the Elders of his citie shall call him, and commune with him: if he stand and say, I wil not take her,
\v 9 Then shall his kinswoman come vnto him in the presence of the Elders, and loose his shooe from his foote, and spit in his face, and answere, and say, So shall it be done vnto that man, that will not buylde vp his brothers house.
\v 10 And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him whose shooe is put off.
\v 11 When men striue together, one with another, if the wife of the one come neere, for to ridde her husband out of the handes of him that smiteth him, and put foorth her hand, and take him by his priuities,
\v 12 Then thou shalt cut off her hande: thine eye shall not spare her.
\v 13 Thou shalt not haue in thy bagge two maner of weightes, a great and a small,
\v 14 Neither shalt thou haue in thine house diuers measures, a great and a small:
\v 15 But thou shalt haue a right and iust weight: a perfite and a iust measure shalt thou haue, that thy dayes may be lengthened in the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee.
\v 16 For all that doe such things, and all that doe vnrighteously, are abomination vnto the Lord thy God.
\v 17 Remember what Amalek did vnto thee by the way, when ye were come out of Egypt:
\v 18 How he met thee by ye way, and smote ye hindmost of you, all that were feeble behind thee, when thou wast fainted and weary, and he feared not God.
\v 19 Therefore, when the Lord thy God hath giuen thee rest from all thine enemies round about in the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee for an inheritance to possesse it, then thou shalt put out the remembrance of Amalek from vnder heauen: forget not.