\c 17
\p
\v 1 And after sixe dayes, Iesus tooke Peter, and Iames and Iohn his brother, and brought them vp into an hie mountaine apart,
\v 2 And was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the Sunne, and his clothes were as white as the light.
\v 3 And beholde, there appeared vnto them Moses, and Elias, talking with him.
\v 4 Then answered Peter, and saide to Iesus, Master, it is good for vs to be here: if thou wilt, let vs make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
\v 5 While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloude shadowed them: and beholde, there came a voyce out of the cloude, saying, This is that my beloued Sonne, in whom I am well pleased: heare him.
\v 6 And when the disciples heard that, they fell on their faces, and were sore afraide.
\v 7 Then Iesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraide.
\v 8 And when they lifted vp their eyes, they sawe no man, saue Iesus onely.
\v 9 And as they came downe from the moutaine, Iesus charged them, saying, Shewe the vision to no man, vntil the Sonne of man rise againe from the dead.
\v 10 And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the Scribes that Elias must first come?
\v 11 And Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Certeinely Elias must first come, and restore all thinges.
\v 12 But I say vnto you that Elias is come alreadie, and they knewe him not, but haue done vnto him whatsoeuer they would: likewise shall also the Sonne of man suffer of them.
\v 13 Then the disciples perceiued that he spake vnto them of Iohn Baptist.
\v 14 And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certaine man, and fell downe at his feete,
\v 15 And saide, Master, haue pitie on my sonne: for he is lunatike, and is sore vexed: for oft times he falleth into the fire, and oft times into the water.
\v 16 And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not heale him.
\v 17 Then Iesus answered, and said, O generation faithlesse, and crooked, how long now shall I be with you! howe long nowe shall I suffer you! bring him hither to me.
\v 18 And Iesus rebuked the deuill, and he went out of him: and the childe was healed at that houre.
\v 19 Then came the disciples to Iesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out?
\v 20 And Iesus said vnto them, Because of your vnbeliefe: for verely I say vnto you, if ye haue faith as much as is a graine of mustarde seede, ye shall say vnto this mountaine, Remooue hence to yonder place, and it shall remoue: and nothing shalbe vnpossible vnto you.
\v 21 Howbeit this kinde goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting.
\v 22 And they being in Galile, Iesus said vnto them, The Sonne of man shall be deliuered into the handes of men,
\v 23 And they shall kill him, but the thirde day shall he rise againe: and they were very sorie.
\v 24 And when they were come to Capernaum, they that receiued polle money, came to Peter, and sayd, Doeth not your Master pay polle money?
\v 25 He sayd, Yes. And when he was come into the house, Iesus preuented him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? Of whome doe the Kings of the earth take tribute, or polle money? of their children, or of strangers?
\v 26 Peter sayd vnto him, Of strangers. Then said Iesus vnto him, Then are the children free.
\v 27 Neuerthelesse, lest we should offend them: goe to the sea, and cast in an angle, and take the first fish that commeth vp, and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt finde a piece of twentie pence: that take, and giue it vnto them for me and thee.