\c 28
\p
\v 1 And when they were come safe, then they knewe that the Yle was called Melita.
\v 2 And the Barbarians shewed vs no litle kindnesse: for they kindled a fire, and receiued vs euery one, because of the present showre, and because of the colde.
\v 3 And when Paul had gathered a nomber of stickes, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heate, and leapt on his hand.
\v 4 Nowe when ye Barbarians saw the worme hang on his hand, they said among themselues, This man surely is a murtherer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet Vengeance hath not suffered to liue.
\v 5 But he shooke off the worme into the fire, and felt no harme.
\v 6 Howbeit they wayted whe he should haue swolne, or fallen downe dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and sawe no inconuenience come to him, they changed their mindes, and said, That he was a God.
\v 7 In the same quarters, the chiefe man of the Yle (whose name was Publius) had possessions: the same receiued vs, and lodged vs three dayes courteously.
\v 8 And so it was, that the father of Publius lay sicke of the feauer, and of a bloodie flixe: to whom Paul entred in, and when he prayed, he laide his hands on him, and healed him.
\v 9 When this then was done, other also in the Yle, which had diseases, came to him, and were healed,
\v 10 Which also did vs great honour: and when we departed, they laded vs with things necessarie.
\v 11 Nowe after three moneths we departed in a shippe of Alexandria, which had wintred in the Yle, whose badge was Castor and Pollux.
\v 12 And when we arriued at Syracuse, we taried there three dayes.
\v 13 And from thence we set a compasse, and came to Rhegium: and after one day, the South wind blewe, and we came the seconde day to Putioli:
\v 14 Where we found brethren, and were desired to tary with them seuen dayes, and so we went toward Rome.
\v 15 And from thence, when the brethren heard of vs, they came to meete vs at the Market of Appius, and at the Three tauernes, whom when Paul sawe, he thanked God, and waxed bolde.
\v 16 So when we came to Rome, the Centurion deliuered the prisoners to the generall Captaine: but Paul was suffered to dwell by him selfe with a souldier that kept him.
\v 17 And the third day after, Paul called the chiefe of the Iewes together: and when they were come, he said vnto them, Men and brethren, though I haue committed nothing against the people, or Lawes of the fathers, yet was I deliuered prisoner from Hierusalem into the handes of the Romanes.
\v 18 Who when they had examined me, would haue let me goe, because there was no cause of death in me.
\v 19 But when the Iewes spake contrary, I was constrained to appeale vnto Cesar, not because I had ought to accuse my nation of.
\v 20 For this cause therefore haue I called for you, to see you, and to speake with you: for that hope of Israels sake, I am bound with this chaine.
\v 21 Then they saide vnto him, We neither receiued letters out of Iudea concerning thee, neither came any of the brethren that shewed or spake any euill of thee.
\v 22 But we will heare of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, we knowe that euery where it is spoken against.
\v 23 And when they had appointed him a day, there came many vnto him into his lodging, to whom he expounded testifying the kingdome of God, and persuading them those things that concerne Iesus, both out of the Lawe of Moses, and out of the Prophets, from morning to night.
\v 24 And some were persuaded with ye things which were spoken, and some beleeued not.
\v 25 Therefore when they agreed not among themselues, they departed, after that Paul had spoken one word, to wit, Well spake the holy Ghost by Esaias the Prophet vnto our fathers,
\v 26 Saying, Goe vnto this people, and say, By hearing ye shall heare, and shall not vnderstand, and seeing ye shall see, and not perceiue.
\v 27 For the heart of this people is waxed fatte, and their eares are dull of hearing, and with their eyes haue they winked, least they shoulde see with their eyes, and heare with their eares, and vnderstand with their heartes, and should returne that I might heale them.
\v 28 Be it knowen therefore vnto you, that this saluation of God is sent to the Gentiles, and they shall heare it.
\v 29 And when he had saide these things, the Iewes departed, and had great reasoning among themselues.
\v 30 And Paul remained two yeeres full in an house hired for himselfe, and receiued all that came in vnto him,
\v 31 Preaching the kingdome of God, and teaching those things which concerne the Lord Iesus Christ, with all boldnesse of speache, without let.