\c 8
\p
\v 1 Afterwarde the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Take Aaron and his sonnes with him, and the garments and the anointing oyle, and a bullocke for the sinne offring, and two rammes, and a basket of vnleauened bread,
\v 3 And assemble all the company at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 4 So Moses did as the Lord had commanded him, and the companie was assembled at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
\v 5 Then Moses said vnto the company, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded to doe.
\v 6 And Moses brought Aaron and his sonnes, and washed them with water,
\v 7 And put vpon him the coate, and girded him with a girdle, and clothed him with the robe, and put the Ephod on him, which he girded with the broydred garde of the Ephod, and bounde it vnto him therewith.
\v 8 After he put the brest plate thereon, and put in the breast plate the Vrim and the Thummim.
\v 9 Also he put the miter vpon his head, and put vpon the miter on the fore front the golden plate, and the holy crowne, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 10 (Nowe Moses had taken the anointing oyle, and anoynted the Tabernacle, and al that was therein, and sanctified them,
\v 11 And sprinkled thereof vpon the altar seuen times, and anointed the altar and all his instruments, and the lauer, and his foote, to sanctifie them)
\v 12 And he powred of the anointing oyle vpon Aarons head, and anointed him, to sanctifie him.
\v 13 After, Moses brought Aarons sonnes, and put coates vpon them, and girded them with girdles, and put bonets vpon their heades, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 14 Then he brought the bullocke for the sinne offring, and Aaron and his sonnes put their handes vpon the head of the bullocke for the sinne offring.
\v 15 And Moses slew him, and tooke the blood, which he put vpon the hornes of the Altar roud about with his finger, and purified the altar, and powred the rest of the blood at the foote of ye altar: so he sanctified it, to make reconciliation vpon it.
\v 16 Then he tooke all the fatte that was vpon the inwardes, and the kall of the liuer and the two kidneis, with their fat, which Moses burned vpon the Altar.
\v 17 But the bullocke and his hide, and his flesh, and his doung, hee burnt with fire without the host as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 18 Also hee brought the ram for the burnt offring, and Aaron and his sonnes put their hands vpon the head of the ramme.
\v 19 So Moses killed it, and sprinkled the blood vpon the Altar round about,
\v 20 And Moses cut the ram in pieces, and burnt the head with the pieces, and the fat,
\v 21 And washed the inwardes and the legges in water: so Moses burnt the ram euery whit vpon ye Altar: for it was a burnt offring for a sweete sauour, which was made by fire vnto the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 22 After, he brought the other ram, the ram of consecrations, and Aaron and his sonnes layed their handes vpon the head of the ram,
\v 23 Which Moses slewe, and tooke of the blood of it, and put it vpon the lappe of Aarons right eare, and vpon the thumbe of his right hand, and vpon the great toe of his right foote.
\v 24 Then Moses brought Aarons sonnes, and put of the blood on the lap of their right eares, and vpon the thumbes of their right handes, and vpon the great toes of their right feete, and Moses sprinckled the rest of the blood vpon the Altar round about.
\v 25 And he tooke the fat and the rumpe and all the fat that was vpon the inwards, and the kall of the liuer, and the two kidneis with their fat, and the right shoulder.
\v 26 Also he tooke of ye basket of ye vnleauened bread that was before the Lord, one vnleauened cake and a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them on the fat, and vpon the right shoulder.
\v 27 So hee put all in Aarons handes, and in his sonnes handes, and shooke it to and from before the Lord.
\v 28 After, Moses tooke the out of their hands, and burnt them vpon the altar for a burnt offring: for these were consecrations for a sweete sauour which were made by fire vnto the Lord.
\v 29 Likewise Moses tooke the breast of the ram of consecrations, and shooke it to and from before the Lord: for it was Moses portion, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 30 Also Moses tooke of the anointing oyle, and of the blood which was vpon the Altar, and sprinkled it vpon Aaron, vpon his garments, and vpon his sonnes, and on his sonnes garments with him: so hee sanctified Aaron, his garments, and his sonnes, and his sonnes garments with him.
\v 31 Afterward Moses saide vnto Aaron and his sonnes, Seethe the flesh at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and there eate it with the bread that is in the basket of consecrations, as I commanded, saying, Aaron and his sonnes shall eate it,
\v 32 But that which remaineth of the flesh and of the bread, shall ye burne with fire.
\v 33 And ye shall not depart from the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation seuen dayes, vntill the dayes of your consecrations bee at an ende: for seuen dayes, saide the Lord, shall hee consecrate you,
\v 34 As hee hath done this day: so the Lord hath commanded to doe, to make an atonement for you.
\v 35 Therefore shall yee abide at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation day and night, seuen dayes, and shall keepe the watch of the Lord, that ye dye not: for so I am commanded.
\v 36 So Aaron and his sonnes did all thinges which the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses.