\c 3
\p
\v 1 ANd write vnto the Angel of the Church which is at Sardis, These things saith he that hath the seuen Spirits of God, and the seuen starres, I knowe thy workes: for thou hast a name that thou liuest, but thou art dead.
\v 2 Be awake, and strengthen the things which remaine, that are readie to die: for I haue not found thy workes perfite before God.
\v 3 Remember therefore, how thou hast receiued and heard, and hold fast and repent. If therefore thou wilt not watch, I will come on thee as a thiefe, and thou shalt not know what houre I wil come vpon thee.
\v 4 Notwithstanding thou hast a few names yet in Sardis, which haue not defiled their garments: and they shall walke with me in white: for they are worthy.
\v 5 He that ouercommeth, shalbe clothed in white araye, and I will not put out his name out of the booke of life, but I will confesse his name before my Father, and before his Angels.
\v 6 Let him that hath an eare, heare, what the Spirite saith vnto the Churches.
\v 7 And write vnto ye Angel of ye Church which is of Philadelphia, These things saith he that is Holy, and True, which hath ye keye of Dauid, which openeth and no man shutteth, and shutteth and no man openeth,
\v 8 I knowe thy workes: beholde, I haue set before thee an open doore, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a litle strength and hast kept my worde, and hast not denied my Name.
\v 9 Behold, I will make them of the Synagogue of Satan, which call themselues Iewes, and are not, but doe lye: beholde, I say, I will make them, that they shall come and worship before thy feete, and shall knowe that I haue loued thee.
\v 10 Because thou hast kept the woorde of my patience, therefore I wil deliuer thee from the houre of tentation, which will come vpon all the world, to trie them that dwell vpon the earth.
\v 11 Beholde, I come shortly: holde that which thou hast, that no man take thy crowne.
\v 12 Him that ouercommeth, will I make a pillar in the Temple of my God, and he shall goe no more out: and I will write vpon him the Name of my God, and the name of the citie of my God, which is the newe Hierusalem, which commeth downe out of heauen from my God, and I will write vpon him my newe Name.
\v 13 Let him that hath an eare, heare what ye Spirit saith vnto the Churches.
\v 14 And vnto the Angell of the Church of the Laodiceans write, These things saieth Amen, the faithfull and true witnesse, that beginning of the creatures of God.
\v 15 I knowe thy woorkes, that thou art neither colde nor hote: I woulde thou werest colde or hote.
\v 16 Therefore, because thou art luke warme, and neither colde nor hote, it will come to passe, that I shall spewe thee out of my mouth.
\v 17 For thou saiest, I am rich and increased with goods, and haue neede of nothing, and knowest not howe thou art wretched and miserable, and poore, and blinde, and naked.
\v 18 I counsell thee to bye of me gold tried by the fire, that thou maiest bee made rich: and white raiment, that thou maiest be clothed, and that thy filthie nakednesse doe not appeare: and anoynt thine eyes with eye salue, that thou maiest see.
\v 19 As many as I loue, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore and amend.
\v 20 Behold, I stand at the doore, and knocke. If any man heare my voice and open ye doore, I wil come in vnto him, and will suppe with him, and he with me.
\v 21 To him that ouercommeth, will I graunt to sit with me in my throne, euen as I ouercame, and sit with my Father in his throne.
\v 22 Let him that hath an eare, heare what the Spirit saieth vnto the Churches.