\c 11
\p
\v 1 And it came to passe that when Iesus had made an ende of commaunding his twelue disciples, hee departed thence to teache and to preach in their cities.
\v 2 And when Iohn heard in the prison the woorkes of Christ, he sent two of his disciples, and sayde vnto him,
\v 3 Art thou he that shoulde come, or shall we looke for another?
\v 4 And Iesus answering, said vnto them, Goe, and shewe Iohn, what things ye heare, and see.
\v 5 The blinde receiue sight, and the halt doe walke: the lepers are clensed, and the deafe heare, the dead are raised vp, and the poore receiue the Gospel.
\v 6 And blessed is he that shall not be offeded in me.
\v 7 And as they departed, Iesus beganne to speake vnto the multitude, of Iohn, What went ye out into the wildernes to see? A reede shaken with the winde?
\v 8 But what went ye out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they that weare soft clothing, are in Kings houses.
\v 9 But what went ye out to see? A Prophet? Yea, I say vnto you, and more then a Prophet.
\v 10 For this is he of whom it is written, Beholde, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
\v 11 Verely I say vnto you, among them which are begotten of women, arose there not a greater then Iohn Baptist: notwithstanding, he that is the least in the kingdome of heauen, is greater then he.
\v 12 And from the time of Iohn Baptist hitherto, the kingdome of heauen suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force.
\v 13 For all the Prophetes and the Lawe prophecied vnto Iohn.
\v 14 And if ye will receiue it, this is that Elias, which was to come.
\v 15 He that hath eares to heare, let him heare.
\v 16 But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like vnto litle children which sit in the markets, and call vnto their fellowes,
\v 17 And say, We haue piped vnto you, and ye haue not daunced, we haue mourned vnto you, and ye haue not lamented.
\v 18 For Iohn came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a deuill.
\v 19 The sonne of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Beholde a glutton and a drinker of wine, a friend vnto Publicanes and sinners: but wisedome is iustified of her children.
\v 20 Then began he to vpbraide the cities, wherein most of his great workes were done, because they repented not.
\v 21 Woe be to thee, Chorazin: Woe be to thee, Bethsaida: for if ye great workes, which were done in you, had bene done in Tyrus and Sidon, they had repented long agone in sackecloth and ashes.
\v 22 But I say to you, It shalbe easier for Tyrus and Sidon at the day of iudgement, then for you.
\v 23 And thou, Capernaum, which art lifted vp vnto heauen, shalt be brought downe to hell: for if the great workes, which haue bin done in thee, had bene done among them of Sodom, they had remained to this day.
\v 24 But I say vnto you, that it shall be easier for them of the land of Sodom in the day of iudgement, then for thee.
\v 25 At that time Iesus answered, and saide, I giue thee thankes, O Father, Lord of heauen and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and men of vnderstanding, and hast opened them vnto babes.
\v 26 It is so, O Father, because thy good pleasure was such.
\v 27 All things are giuen vnto me of my Father: and no man knoweth the Sonne, but ye Father: neither knoweth any man ye Father, but the Sonne, and he to whom ye Sonne will reueile him.
\v 28 Come vnto me, all ye that are wearie and laden, and I will ease you.
\v 29 Take my yoke on you, and learne of me that I am meeke and lowly in heart: and ye shall finde rest vnto your soules.
\v 30 For my yoke is easie, and my burden light.