\c 18
\p
\v 1 When Iesus had spoken these things, hee went foorth with his disciples ouer the brooke Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entred, and his disciples.
\v 2 And Iudas which betraied him, knewe also the place: for Iesus oft times resorted thither with his disciples.
\v 3 Iudas then, after hee had receiued a band of men and officers of the high Priests, and of the Pharises, came thither with lanternes and torches, and weapons.
\v 4 Then Iesus, knowing all things that shoulde come vnto him, went foorth and said vnto them, Whom seeke yee?
\v 5 They answered him, Iesus of Nazareth. Iesus sayde vnto them, I am hee. Nowe Iudas also which betraied him, stoode with them.
\v 6 Assoone then as hee had saide vnto them, I am hee, they went away backewardes, and fell to the grounde.
\v 7 Then he asked them againe, Whome seeke yee? And they sayd, Iesus of Nazareth.
\v 8 Iesus answered, I said vnto you, that I am he: therefore if ye seeke me, let these go their way.
\v 9 This was that the worde might be fulfilled which hee spake, Of them which thou gauest me, haue I lost none.
\v 10 Then Simon Peter hauing a sword, drewe it, and smote the hie Priests seruant, and cut off his right eare. Nowe the seruants name was Malchus.
\v 11 Then sayde Iesus vnto Peter, Put vp thy sworde into the sheath: shall I not drinke of the cuppe which my Father hath giuen me?
\v 12 Then the bande and the captaine, and the officers of the Iewes tooke Iesus, and bound him,
\v 13 And led him away to Annas first (for he was father in lawe to Caiaphas, which was the hie Priest that same yeere)
\v 14 And Caiaphas was he, that gaue counsel to the Iewes, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
\v 15 Nowe Simon Peter folowed Iesus, and another disciple, and that disciple was knowen of the hie Priest: therefore he went in with Iesus into the hall of the hie Priest:
\v 16 But Peter stood at the doore without. Then went out the other disciple which was knowen vnto the hie Priest, and spake to her that kept the doore, and brought in Peter.
\v 17 Then saide the maide that kept the doore, vnto Peter, Art not thou also one of this mans disciples? He sayd, I am not.
\v 18 And the seruants and officers stoode there, which had made a fire of coles: for it was colde, and they warmed themselues. And Peter also stood among them, and warmed himselfe.
\v 19 (The hie Priest then asked Iesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine.
\v 20 Iesus answered him, I spake openly to the world: I euer taught in the Synagogue and in the Temple, whither the Iewes resort continually, and in secret haue I sayde nothing.
\v 21 Why askest thou mee? aske them which heard mee what I sayde vnto them: beholde, they knowe what I sayd.
\v 22 When he had spoken these thinges, one of the officers which stoode by, smote Iesus with his rod, saying, Answerest thou the hie Priest so?
\v 23 Iesus answered him, If I haue euill spoken, beare witnes of the euil: but if I haue well spoken, why smitest thou me?
\v 24 Nowe Annas had sent him bound vnto Caiaphas the hie Priest)
\v 25 And Simon Peter stoode and warmed himselfe, and they said vnto him, Art not thou also of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not.
\v 26 One of the seruaunts of the hie Priest, his cousin whose eare Peter smote off, saide, Did not I see thee in the garden with him?
\v 27 Peter then denied againe, and immediatly the cocke crewe.
\v 28 Then led they Iesus from Caiaphas into the common hall. Nowe it was morning, and they themselues went not into the common hall, least they should be defiled, but that they might eate the Passeouer.
\v 29 Pilate then went out vnto them, and said, What accusation bring yee against this man?
\v 30 They answered, and saide vnto him, If hee were not an euill doer, we woulde not haue deliuered him vnto thee.
\v 31 Then sayde Pilate vnto them, Take yee him, and iudge him after your owne Lawe. Then the Iewes sayde vnto him, It is not lawfull for vs to put any man to death.
\v 32 It was that the worde of Iesus might be fulfilled which he spake, signifying what death he should die.
\v 33 So Pilate entred into the common hall againe, and called Iesus, and sayde vnto him, Art thou the king of the Iewes?
\v 34 Iesus answered him, Saiest thou that of thy selfe, or did other tell it thee of me?
\v 35 Pilate answered, Am I a Iewe? Thine owne nation, and the hie Priestes haue deliuered thee vnto me. What hast thou done?
\v 36 Iesus answered, My kingdome is not of this worlde: if my kingdome were of this worlde, my seruants would surely fight, that I should not be deliuered to the Iewes: but nowe is my kingdome not from hence.
\v 37 Pilate then said vnto him, Art thou a King then? Iesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a King: for this cause am I borne, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should beare witnes vnto the trueth: euery one that is of the trueth, heareth my voyce.
\v 38 Pilate said vnto him, What is trueth? And when he had saide that, hee went out againe vnto the Iewes, and said vnto them, I finde in him no cause at all.
\v 39 But you haue a custome, that I shoulde deliuer you one loose at the Passeouer: will yee then that I loose vnto you the King of ye Iewes?
\v 40 Then cried they all againe, saying, Not him, but Barabbas: nowe this Barabbas was a murtherer.