\c 23
\p
\v 1 Then the whole multitude of them arose, and led him vnto Pilate.
\v 2 And they began to accuse him, saying, We haue found this man peruerting the nation, and forbidding to pay tribute to Cesar, saying, That he is Christ a King.
\v 3 And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Iewes? And hee answered him, and sayd, Thou sayest it.
\v 4 Then sayd Pilate to the hie Priests, and to the people, I finde no fault in this man.
\v 5 But they were the more fierce, saying, He moueth the people, teaching throughout all Iudea, beginning at Galile, euen to this place.
\v 6 Nowe when Pilate heard of Galile, he asked whether the man were a Galilean.
\v 7 And when he knewe that he was of Herods iurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, which was also at Hierusalem in those dayes.
\v 8 And when Herod sawe Iesus, hee was exceedingly glad: for he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him, and trusted to haue seene some signe done by him.
\v 9 Then questioned hee with him of many things: but he answered him nothing.
\v 10 The hie Priests also and Scribes stood forth, and accused him vehemently.
\v 11 And Herod with his men of warre, despised him, and mocked him, and arayed him in white, and sent him againe to Pilate.
\v 12 And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together: for before they were enemies one to another.
\v 13 Then Pilate called together the hie Priests and the rulers, and the people,
\v 14 And sayd vnto them, Ye haue brought this man vnto me, as one that peruerted the people: and beholde, I haue examined him before you, and haue found no fault in this man, of those things whereof ye accuse him:
\v 15 No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him: and loe, nothing worthy of death is done of him.
\v 16 I will therefore chastise him, and let him loose.
\v 17 (For of necessitie hee must haue let one loose vnto them at the feast.)
\v 18 Then all ye multitude cried at once, saying, Away with him, and deliuer vnto vs Barabbas:
\v 19 Which for a certaine insurrection made in the citie, and murder, was cast in prison.
\v 20 Then Pilate spake againe to them, willing to let Iesus loose.
\v 21 But they cried, saying, Crucifie, crucifie him.
\v 22 And he sayd vnto them the third time, But what euill hath he done? I finde no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him loose.
\v 23 But they were instant with loude voyces, and required that he might be crucified: and the voyces of them and of the hie Priests preuailed.
\v 24 So Pilate gaue sentence, that it should be as they required.
\v 25 And he let loose vnto them him that for insurrection and murder was cast into prison, whome they desired, and deliuered Iesus to doe with him what they would.
\v 26 And as they led him away, they caught one Simon of Cyrene, comming out of the fielde, and on him they layde the crosse, to beare it after Iesus.
\v 27 And there followed him a great multitude of people, and of women, which women bewailed and lamented him.
\v 28 But Iesus turned backe vnto them, and said, Daughters of Hierusalem, weepe not for me, but weepe for your selues, and for your children.
\v 29 For behold, the dayes wil come, when men shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombes that neuer bare, and the pappes which neuer gaue sucke.
\v 30 Then shall they begin to say to the mountaines, Fall on vs: and to the hilles, Couer vs.
\v 31 For if they doe these things to a greene tree, what shalbe done to the drie?
\v 32 And there were two others, which were euill doers, led with him to be slaine.
\v 33 And when they were come to the place, which is called Caluarie, there they crucified him, and the euill doers: one at the right hand, and the other at the left.
\v 34 Then sayd Iesus, Father, forgiue them: for they know not what they doe. And they parted his raiment, and cast lottes.
\v 35 And the people stoode, and behelde: and the rulers mocked him with them, saying, He saued others: let him saue himselfe, if hee be that Christ, the Chosen of God.
\v 36 The souldiers also mocked him, and came and offered him vineger,
\v 37 And said, If thou be the King of the Iewes, saue thy selfe.
\v 38 And a superscription was also written ouer him, in Greeke letters, and in Latin, and in Hebrewe, THIS IS THAT KING OF THE JEWES.
\v 39 And one of the euill doers, which were hanged, railed on him, saying, If thou be that Christ, saue thy selfe and vs.
\v 40 But the other answered, and rebuked him, saying, Fearest thou not God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?
\v 41 We are in deede righteously here: for we receiue things worthy of that we haue done: but this man hath done nothing amisse.
\v 42 And he sayd vnto Iesus, Lord, remember me, when thou commest into thy kingdome.
\v 43 Then Iesus said vnto him, Verely I say vnto thee, to day shalt thou be with me in Paradise.
\v 44 And it was about the sixt houre: and there was a darkenes ouer all the land, vntill the ninth houre.
\v 45 And the Sunne was darkened, and the vaile of the Temple rent through the middes.
\v 46 And Iesus cryed with a loude voyce, and sayd, Father, into thine hands I commend my spirit. And when hee thus had sayd, hee gaue vp the ghost.
\v 47 Nowe when the Centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Of a suretie this man was iust.
\v 48 And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding the things, which were done, smote their brestes, and returned.
\v 49 And all his acquaintance stood a farre off, and the women that followed him from Galile, beholding these things.
\v 50 And beholde, there was a man named Ioseph, which was a counseller, a good man and a iust.
\v 51 Hee did not consent to the counsell and deede of them, which was of Arimathea, a citie of the Iewes: who also himselfe waited for the kingdome of God.
\v 52 He went vnto Pilate, and asked the body of Iesus,
\v 53 And tooke it downe, and wrapped it in a linnen cloth, and laide it in a tombe hewen out of a rocke, wherein was neuer man yet laide.
\v 54 And that day was the preparation, and the Sabbath drewe on.
\v 55 And the women also that followed after, which came with him from Galile, behelde the sepulchre, and how his body was layd.
\v 56 And they returned and prepared odours, and ointments, and rested the Sabbath day according to the commandement.