\c 26
\p
\v 1 And it came to passe, when Iesus had finished all these sayings, he saide vnto his disciples,
\v 2 Ye know that after two dayes is ye Passeouer, and the Sonne of man shalbe deliuered to be crucified.
\v 3 Then assembled together the chiefe Priests, and the Scribes, and the Elders of ye people into the hall of the high Priest called Caiaphas:
\v 4 And consulted together that they might take Iesus by subtiltie, and kill him.
\v 5 But they sayd, Not on the feast day, least any vprore be among the people.
\v 6 And when Iesus was in Bethania, in the house of Simon the leper,
\v 7 There came vnto him a woman, which had a boxe of very costly oyntment, and powred it on his head, as he sate at the table.
\v 8 And when his disciples sawe it, they had indignation, saying, What needed this waste?
\v 9 For this oyntment might haue bene solde for much, and bene giuen to the poore.
\v 10 And Iesus knowing it, sayde vnto them, Why trouble yee the woman? for shee hath wrought a good woorke vpon me.
\v 11 For yee haue the poore alwayes with you, but me shall yee not haue alwaies.
\v 12 For in that shee powred this oyntment on my bodie, shee did it to burie me.
\v 13 Verely I say vnto you, wheresoeuer this Gospel shall bee preached throughout all the worlde, there shall also this that shee hath done, be spoken of for a memoriall of her.
\v 14 Then one of the twelue, called Iudas Iscariot, went vnto the chiefe Priestes,
\v 15 And said, What will ye giue me, and I will deliuer him vnto you? and they appoynted vnto him thirtie pieces of siluer.
\v 16 And from that time, he sought opportunitie to betraie him.
\v 17 Nowe on the first day of the feast of vnleauened bread the disciples came to Iesus, saying vnto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eate the Passeouer?
\v 18 And he said, Goe yee into the citie to such a man, and say to him, The master saieth, My time is at hande: I will keepe the Passeouer at thine house with my disciples.
\v 19 And the disciples did as Iesus had giuen them charge, and made readie the Passeouer.
\v 20 So when the Euen was come, hee sate downe with the twelue.
\v 21 And as they did eate, he sayde, Verely I say vnto you, that one of you shall betraie me.
\v 22 And they were exceeding sorowfull, and began euery one of them to say vnto him, Is it I, Master?
\v 23 And hee answered and sayde, Hee that dippeth his hande with me in the dish, hee shall betraie me.
\v 24 Surely the Sonne of man goeth his way, as it is written of him: but woe be to that man, by whom the Sonne of man is betrayed: it had bene good for that man, if hee had neuer bene borne.
\v 25 Then Iudas which betraied him, answered and sayde, Is it I, Master? He sayde vnto him, Thou hast sayd it.
\v 26 And as they did eate, Iesus tooke the bread, and when he had blessed, he brake it, and gaue it to the disciples, and sayd, Take, eate: this is my bodie.
\v 27 Also he tooke the cuppe, and when he had giuen thankes, he gaue it them, saying, Drinke ye all of it.
\v 28 For this is my blood of the Newe Testament, that is shedde for many, for the remission of sinnes.
\v 29 I say vnto you, that I will not drinke henceforth of this fruit of the vine vntil that day, when I shall drinke it new with you in my Fathers kingdome.
\v 30 And when they had sung a Psalme, they went out into the mount of Oliues.
\v 31 Then saide Iesus vnto them, All yee shall be offended by me this night: for it is written, I wil smite the shepheard, and the sheepe of the flocke shalbe scattered.
\v 32 But after I am risen againe, I will go before you into Galile.
\v 33 But Peter aunswered, and sayde vnto him, Though that al men should be offended by thee, yet will I neuer be offended.
\v 34 Iesus sayde vnto him, Verely I say vnto thee, that this night, before the cocke crow, thou shalt denie me thrise.
\v 35 Peter saide vnto him, Though I should die with thee, I will in no case denie thee. Likewise also sayd all the disciples.
\v 36 Then went Iesus with them into a place which is called Gethsemane, and said vnto his disciples, Sit ye here, while I goe, and pray yonder.
\v 37 And hee tooke vnto him Peter, and the two sonnes of Zebedeus, and began to waxe sorowfull, and grieuously troubled.
\v 38 Then sayde Iesus vnto them, My soule is very heauie, euen vnto the death: tarie yee here, and watch with me.
\v 39 So hee went a litle further, and fell on his face, and praied, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup passe from me: neuerthelesse, not as I will, but as thou wilt.
\v 40 After, hee came vnto the disciples, and founde them a sleepe, and sayde to Peter, What? coulde yee not watch with me one houre?
\v 41 Watch, and praie, that yee enter not into tentation: the spirit in deede is readie, but the flesh is weake.
\v 42 Againe he went away the second time, and praied, saying, O my Father, if this cuppe can not passe away from mee, but that I must drinke it, thy will be done.
\v 43 And he came, and founde them a sleepe againe, for their eyes were heauie.
\v 44 So he left them and went away againe, and praied the third time, saying the same woordes.
\v 45 Then came he to his disciples, and said vnto them, Sleepe henceforth, and take your rest: behold, the houre is at hand, and the Sonne of man is giuen into the hands of sinners.
\v 46 Rise, let vs goe: beholde, hee is at hande that betraieth me.
\v 47 And while hee yet spake, loe Iudas, one of the twelue, came, and with him a great multitude with swordes and staues, from the high Priests and Elders of the people.
\v 48 Now he that betraied him, had giuen them a token, saying, Whomesoeuer I shall kisse, that is he, laie holde on him.
\v 49 And forthwith he came to Iesus, and sayd, God saue thee, Master, and kissed him.
\v 50 Then Iesus sayde vnto him, Friende, wherefore art thou come? Then came they, and laide hands on Iesus, and tooke him.
\v 51 And behold, one of them which were with Iesus, stretched out his hand, and drewe his sworde, and strooke a seruaunt of the high Priest, and smote off his eare.
\v 52 Then sayde Iesus vnto him, Put vp thy sworde into his place: for all that take the sworde, shall perish with the sworde.
\v 53 Either thinkest thou, that I can not now pray to my Father, and he will giue me moe then twelue legions of Angels?
\v 54 Howe then shoulde the Scriptures bee fulfilled, which say, that it must be so?
\v 55 The same houre sayde Iesus to the multitude, Ye be come out as it were against a thiefe, with swordes and staues to take mee: I sate daily teaching in the Temple among you, and yee tooke me not.
\v 56 But all this was done, that the Scriptures of the Prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsooke him, and fled.
\v 57 And they tooke Iesus, and led him to Caiaphas the hie Priest, where the Scribes and the Elders were assembled.
\v 58 And Peter followed him a farre off vnto the hie Priestes hall, and went in, and sate with the seruants to see the ende.
\v 59 Nowe the chiefe Priestes and the Elders, and all the whole councill sought false witnesse against Iesus, to put him to death.
\v 60 But they founde none, and though many false witnesses came, yet founde they none: but at the last came two false witnesses,
\v 61 And saide, This man saide, I can destroie the Temple of God, and build it in three daies.
\v 62 Then the chiefe Priest arose, and sayde to him, Answerest thou nothing? What is the matter that these men witnesse against thee?
\v 63 But Iesus helde his peace. Then the chiefe Priest answered, and saide to him, I charge thee sweare vnto vs by the liuing God, to tell vs, If thou be that Christ the Sonne of God, or no.
\v 64 Iesus saide to him, Thou hast saide it: neuerthelesse I say vnto you, hereafter shall ye see the Sonne of man, sitting at the right hande of the power of God, and come in the cloudes of the heauen.
\v 65 Then the hie Priest rent his clothes, saying, Hee hath blasphemed, what haue wee any more neede of witnesses? beholde: nowe yee haue heard his blasphemie.
\v 66 What thinke yee? They answered, and said, He is guiltie of death.
\v 67 Then spet they in his face, and buffeted him, and other smote him with roddes,
\v 68 Saying, Prophecie to vs, O Christ, Who is he that smote thee?
\v 69 Peter sate without in the hall, and a maide came to him, saying, Thou also wast with Iesus of Galile:
\v 70 But hee denied before them all, saying, I wote not what thou saiest.
\v 71 And when hee went out into the porche, another maide sawe him, and sayde vnto them that were there, This man was also with Iesus of Nazareth.
\v 72 And againe he denied with an othe, saying, I knowe not the man.
\v 73 So after a while, came vnto him they that stoode by, and sayde vnto Peter, Surely thou art also one of them: for euen thy speache bewraieth thee.
\v 74 Then began hee to curse himselfe, and to sweare, saying, I knowe not the man. And immediately the cocke crewe.
\v 75 Then Peter remembred the wordes of Iesus, which had sayde vnto him, Before the cocke crowe thou shalt denie me thrise. So he went out, and wept bitterly.