\c 12
\p
\v 1 And he began to speake vnto them in parables, A certaine man planted a vineyard, and copassed it with an hedge, and digged a pit for the winepresse, and built a tower in it, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a strange countrey.
\v 2 And at the time, he sent to the husbandmen a seruant, that he might receiue of the husbandmen of the fruite of the vineyard.
\v 3 But they tooke him, and beat him, and sent him away emptie.
\v 4 And againe he sent vnto them another seruant, and at him they cast stones, and brake his head, and sent him away shamefully handled.
\v 5 And againe he sent another, and him they slew, and many other, beating some, and killing some.
\v 6 Yet had he one sonne, his deare beloued: him also he sent the last vnto them, saying, They will reuerence my sonne.
\v 7 But ye husbandmen said among themselues, This is the heire: come, let vs kill him, and the inheritance shalbe ours.
\v 8 So they tooke him, and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.
\v 9 What shall then the Lord of the vineyard doe? He will come and destroy these husbandmen, and giue the vineyard to others.
\v 10 Haue ye not read so much as this Scripture? The stone which the builders did refuse, is made the head of the corner.
\v 11 This was done of the Lord, and it is marueilous in our eyes.
\v 12 Then they went about to take him, but they feared the people: for they perceiued that he spake that parable against them: therefore they left him, and went their way.
\v 13 And they sent vnto him certaine of the Pharises, and of ye Herodians that they might take him in his talke.
\v 14 And when they came, they saide vnto him, Master, we know that thou art true, and carest for no man: for thou considerest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God truely, Is it lawfull to giue tribute to Cesar, or not?
\v 15 Should we giue it, or should we not giue it? but he knew their hypocrisie, and said vnto them, Why tempt ye me? Bring me a peny, that I may see it.
\v 16 So they brought it, and he said vnto them, Whose is this image and superscription? and they said vnto him, Cesars.
\v 17 Then Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Giue to Cesar the things that are Cesars, and to God, those that are Gods: and they marueiled at him.
\v 18 Then came the Sadduces vnto him, (which say, there is no resurrection) and they asked him, saying,
\v 19 Master, Moses wrote vnto vs, If any mans brother die, and leaue his wife, and leaue no children, that his brother should take his wife, and rayse vp seede vnto his brother.
\v 20 There were seuen brethren, and the first tooke a wife, and when he died, left no issue.
\v 21 Then the seconde tooke her, and he died, neither did he yet leaue issue, and the third likewise:
\v 22 So those seuen had her, and left no yssue: last of all the wife died also.
\v 23 In the resurrection then, when they shall rise againe, whose wife shall she be of them? for seuen had her to wife.
\v 24 Then Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Are ye not therefore deceiued, because ye knowe not the Scriptures, neither the power of God?
\v 25 For when they shall rise againe from the dead, neither men marry, nor wiues are married, but are as the Angels which are in heauen.
\v 26 And as touching the dead, that they shall rise againe, haue ye not read in the booke of Moses, howe in the bush God spake vnto him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Iacob?
\v 27 God is not ye God of the dead, but the God of the liuing. Ye are therefore greatly deceiued.
\v 28 Then came one of the Scribes that had heard them disputing together, and perceiuing that he had answered them well, he asked him, Which is the first commandement of all?
\v 29 Iesus answered him, The first of all the commandements is, Heare, Israel, The Lord our God is the onely Lord.
\v 30 Thou shalt therefore loue the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soule, and with all thy minde, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandement.
\v 31 And the second is like, that is, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe. There is none other commandement greater then these.
\v 32 Then that Scribe said vnto him, Well, Master, thou hast saide the trueth, that there is one God, and that there is none but he,
\v 33 And to loue him with all the heart, and with all the vnderstanding, and with all the soule, and with all the strength, and to loue his neighbour as himselfe, is more then all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.
\v 34 Then when Iesus saw that he answered discreetely, he saide vnto him, Thou art not farre from the kingdome of God. And no man after that durst aske him any question.
\v 35 And Iesus answered and said teaching in the Temple, Howe say the Scribes that Christ is the sonne of Dauid?
\v 36 For Dauid himselfe said by ye holy Ghost, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footestoole.
\v 37 Then Dauid himselfe calleth him Lord: by what meanes is he then his sonne? and much people heard him gladly.
\v 38 Moreouer he saide vnto them in his doctrine, Beware of the Scribes which loue to goe in long robes, and loue salutations in the markets,
\v 39 And the chiefe seates in the Synagogues, and the first roumes at feastes,
\v 40 Which deuoure widowes houses, euen vnder a colour of long prayers. These shall receiue the greater damnation.
\v 41 And as Iesus sate ouer against the treasurie, he beheld how the people cast money into the treasurie, and many rich men cast in much.
\v 42 And there came a certaine poore widowe, and she threw in two mites, which make a quadrin.
\v 43 Then he called vnto him his disciples, and said vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, that this poore widowe hath cast more in, then all they which haue cast into the treasurie.
\v 44 For they all did cast in of their superfluitie: but she of her pouertie did cast in all that she had, euen all her liuing.