\c 3
\p
\v 1 If yee then bee risen with Christ, seeke those thinges which are aboue, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God.
\v 2 Set your affections on things which are aboue, and not on things which are on the earth.
\v 3 For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.
\v 4 When Christ which is our life, shall appeare, then shall ye also appeare with him in glory.
\v 5 Mortifie therefore your members which are on the earth, fornication, vncleannes, the inordinate affection, euill concupiscence, and couetousnes which is idolatrie.
\v 6 For the which things sake ye wrath of God commeth on the children of disobedience.
\v 7 Wherein ye also walked once, when ye liued in them.
\v 8 But now put ye away euen all these things, wrath, anger, maliciousnes, cursed speaking, filthie speaking, out of your mouth.
\v 9 Lie not one to another, seeing that yee haue put off the olde man with his workes,
\v 10 And haue put on the newe, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him,
\v 11 Where is neither Grecian nor Iewe, circumcision nor vncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond, free: But Christ is all, and in all things.
\v 12 Now therfore as the elect of God holy and beloued, put on the bowels of mercies, kindnesse, humblenesse of minde, meekenesse, long suffering:
\v 13 Forbearing one another, and forgiuing one another, if any man haue a quarel to another: euen as Christ forgaue, euen so doe ye.
\v 14 And aboue all these thinges put on loue, which is the bond of perfectnes.
\v 15 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which ye are called in one body, and be ye thankfull.
\v 16 Let the worde of Christ dwell in you plenteously in all wisdome, teaching and admonishing your owne selues, in Psalmes, and hymnes, and spirituall songs, singing with a grace in your hearts to the Lord.
\v 17 And whatsoeuer ye shall doe, in worde or deede, doe all in the Name of the Lord Iesus, giuing thankes to God euen the Father by him.
\v 18 Wiues, submit your selues vnto your husbands, as it is comely in the Lord.
\v 19 Husbands, loue your wiues, and be not bitter vnto them.
\v 20 Children, obey your parents in all thing for that is well pleasing vnto the Lord.
\v 21 Fathers, prouoke not your children to anger, least they be discouraged.
\v 22 Seruants, be obedient vnto them that are your masters according to the flesh, in all things, not with eye seruice as men pleasers, but in singlenes of heart, fearing God.
\v 23 And whatsoeuer ye doe, doe it heartily, as to the Lord, and not to men,
\v 24 Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receiue the reward of the inheritance: for ye serue the Lord Christ.
\v 25 But he that doeth wrong, shall receiue for the wrong that he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.