\c 10
\p
\v 1 And he arose from thence, and went into the coastes of Iudea by the farre side of Iordan, and the people resorted vnto him againe, and as he was wont, he taught them againe.
\v 2 Then the Pharises came and asked him, if it were lawfull for a man to put away his wife, and tempted him.
\v 3 And he answered, and sayde vnto them, What did Moses commaund you?
\v 4 And they sayd, Moses suffered to write a bill of diuorcement, and to put her away.
\v 5 Then Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, For the hardnesse of your heart he wrote this precept vnto you.
\v 6 But at the beginning of the creation God made them male and female:
\v 7 For this cause shall man leaue his father and mother, and cleaue vnto his wife.
\v 8 And they twaine shalbe one flesh: so that they are no more twaine, but one flesh.
\v 9 Therefore, what God hath coupled together, let not man separate.
\v 10 And in the house his disciples asked him againe of that matter.
\v 11 And he sayd vnto them, Whosoeuer shall put away his wife and marrie another, committeth adulterie against her.
\v 12 And if a woman put away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adulterie.
\v 13 Then they brought litle children to him, that he should touch them, and his disciples rebuked those that brought them.
\v 14 But when Iesus sawe it, he was displeased, and said to them, Suffer the litle children to come vnto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdome of God.
\v 15 Verely I say vnto you, Whosoeuer shall not receiue the kingdome of God as a litle childe, he shall not enter therein.
\v 16 And he tooke them vp in his armes, and put his hands vpon them, and blessed them.
\v 17 And when hee was gone out on the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I doe, that I may possesse eternall life?
\v 18 Iesus sayde to him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, euen God.
\v 19 Thou knowest the comandements, Thou shalt not commit adulterie. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not steale. Thou shalt not beare false witnesse. Thou shalt hurt no man. Honour thy father and mother.
\v 20 Then he answered, and said to him, Master, all these things I haue obserued from my youth.
\v 21 And Iesus looked vpon him, and loued him, and sayde vnto him, One thing is lacking vnto thee. Go and sell all that thou hast, and giue to the poore, and thou shalt haue treasure in heauen, and come, follow me, and take vp the crosse.
\v 22 But hee was sad at that saying, and went away sorowfull: for he had great possessions.
\v 23 And Iesus looked round about, and sayd vnto his disciples, Howe hardly doe they that haue riches, enter into the kingdome of God!
\v 24 And his disciples were afraide at his words. But Iesus answered againe, and sayd vnto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches, to enter into the kingdome of God!
\v 25 It is easier for a camel to goe through the eye of a needle, then for a riche man to enter into the kingdome of God.
\v 26 And they were much more astonied, saying with themselues, Who then can be saued?
\v 27 But Iesus looked vpon them, and sayd, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible.
\v 28 Then Peter began to say vnto him, Loe, we haue forsaken all, and haue folowed thee.
\v 29 Iesus answered, and sayd, Verely I say vnto you, there is no man that hath forsaken house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my sake and the Gospels,
\v 30 But he shall receiue an hundred folde, now at this present, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands with persecutions, and in the world to come, eternall life.
\v 31 But many that are first, shall be last, and the last, first.
\v 32 And they were in the way going vp to Hierusalem, and Iesus went before them and they were troubled, and as they followed, they were afraide, and Iesus tooke the twelue againe, and began to tell them what things should come vnto him,
\v 33 Saying, Beholde, we goe vp to Hierusalem, and the Sonne of man shall be deliuered vnto the hie Priests, and to the Scribes, and they shall condemne him to death, and shall deliuer him to the Gentiles.
\v 34 And they shall mocke him, and scourge him, and spit vpon him, and kill him: but the third day he shall rise againe.
\v 35 Then Iames and Iohn the sonnes of Zebedeus came vnto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest doe for vs that we desire.
\v 36 And he sayd vnto them, What would ye I should doe for you?
\v 37 And they said to him, Graunt vnto vs, that we may sit, one at thy right hand, and the other at thy left hand in thy glory.
\v 38 But Iesus sayd vnto them, Ye knowe not what ye aske. Can ye drinke of the cup that I shall drinke of, and be baptized with the baptisme that I shall be baptized with?
\v 39 And they said vnto him, We can. But Iesus sayd vnto them, Ye shall drinke in deede of the cup that I shall drinke of, and be baptized with the baptisme wherewith I shalbe baptized:
\v 40 But to sit at my right hand, and at my left, is not mine to giue, but it shalbe giuen to them for whome it is prepared.
\v 41 And when the ten heard that, they began to disdaine at Iames and Iohn.
\v 42 But Iesus called them vnto him, and sayd to them, Ye know that they which are princes among the Gentiles, haue domination ouer them, and they that be great among them, exercise authoritie ouer them.
\v 43 But it shall not be so among you: but whosoeuer will be great among you, shall be your seruant.
\v 44 And whosoeuer will be chiefe of you, shall be the seruant of all.
\v 45 For euen the Sonne of man came not to be serued, but to serue, and to giue his life for the raunsome of many.
\v 46 Then they came to Iericho: and as he went out of Iericho with his disciples, and a great multitude, Bartimeus the sonne of Timeus, a blinde man, sate by the wayes side, begging.
\v 47 And when hee heard that it was Iesus of Nazareth, he began to crye, and to say, Iesus the Sonne of Dauid, haue mercy on me.
\v 48 And many rebuked him, because he should holde his peace: but hee cryed much more, O Sonne of Dauid, haue mercy on me.
\v 49 Then Iesus stood still, and commanded him to be called: and they called the blind, saying vnto him, Be of good comfort: arise, he calleth thee.
\v 50 So he threwe away his cloke, and rose, and came to Iesus.
\v 51 And Iesus answered, and said vnto him, What wilt thou that I doe vnto thee? And the blinde sayd vnto him, Lord, that I may receiue sight.
\v 52 Then Iesus sayde vnto him, Goe thy way: thy fayth hath saued thee. And by and by, he receiued his sight, and folowed Iesus in the way.