\c 19
\p
\v 1 And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
\v 2 Speake vnto all the Congregation of the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Ye shalbe holy, for I the Lord your God am holy.
\v 3 Yee shall feare euery man his mother and his father, and shall keepe my Sabbaths: for I am the Lord your God.
\v 4 Ye shall not turne vnto idoles, nor make you molten gods: I am the Lord your God.
\v 5 And when yee shall offer a peace offering vnto the Lord, ye shall offer it freely.
\v 6 It shall be eaten the day yee offer it, or on the morowe: and that which remaineth vntill the third day, shalbe burnt in the fire.
\v 7 For if it be eaten the third day, it shall be vncleane, it shall not be accepted.
\v 8 Therefore he that eateth it, shall beare his iniquitie, because he hath defiled the halowed thing of the Lord, and that person shalbe cut off from his people.
\v 9 When yee reape the haruest of your land, ye shall not reape euery corner of your field, neither shalt thou gather the glainings of thy haruest.
\v 10 Thou shalt not gather the grapes of thy vineyarde cleane, neyther gather euery grape of thy vineyarde, but thou shalt leaue them for the poore and for the straunger: I am the Lord your God.
\v 11 Ye shall not steale, neither deale falsely, neither lie one to another.
\v 12 Also yee shall not sweare by my name falsely, neither shalt thou defile the name of thy God: I am the Lord.
\v 13 Thou shalt not do thy neighbour wrong, neither rob him. The workemans hire shall not abide with thee vntil the morning.
\v 14 Thou shalt not curse the deafe, neither put a stumbling blocke before the blinde, but shalt feare thy God: I am the Lord.
\v 15 Ye shall not doe vniustly in iudgement. Thou shalt not fauour the person of the poore, nor honour the person of the mightie, but thou shalt iudge thy neighbour iustly.
\v 16 Thou shalt not walke about with tales among thy people. Thou shalt not stand against the blood of thy neighbour: I am the Lord.
\v 17 Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart, but thou shalt plainely rebuke thy neighbour, and suffer him not to sinne.
\v 18 Thou shalt not auenge, nor be mindful of wrong against ye childre of thy people, but shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe: I am the Lord.
\v 19 Yee shall keepe mine ordinances. Thou shalt not let thy cattel gender with others of diuers kindes. Thou shalt not sowe thy fielde with mingled seede, neyther shall a garment of diuers thinges, as of linen and wollen come vpon thee.
\v 20 Whosoeuer also lyeth and medleth with a woman that is a bonde mayde, affianced to a husband, and not redeemed, nor freedome giuen her, she shalbe scourged, but they shall not die, because she is not made free.
\v 21 And he shall bring for his trespasse offring vnto the Lord, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, a ramme for a trespasse offering.
\v 22 Then the Priest shall make an atonement for him with the ramme of the trespasse offering before the Lord, concerning his sinne which he hath done, and pardon shalbe giuen him for his sinne which he hath committed.
\v 23 Also when ye shall come into the land, and haue planted euery tree for meate, ye shall count the fruite thereof as vncircumcised: three yeere shall it be vncircumcised vnto you, it shall not be eaten:
\v 24 But in the fourth yere all the fruite thereof shalbe holy to the praise of the Lord.
\v 25 And in the fifth yeere shall ye eate of the fruite of it that it may yeelde to you the encrease thereof: I am the Lord your God.
\v 26 Ye shall not eat the flesh with the blood, ye shall not vse witchcraft, nor obserue times.
\v 27 Ye shall not cut rounde the corners of your heades, neither shalt thou marre the tuftes of thy beard.
\v 28 Ye shall not cut your flesh for the dead, nor make any print of a marke vpon you: I am the Lord,
\v 29 Thou shalt not make thy daughter common, to cause her to be a whore, least the lande also fall to whoredome, and the lande bee full of wickednesse.
\v 30 Ye shall keepe my Sabbaths and reuerence my Sanctuarie: I am the Lord.
\v 31 Ye shall not regarde them that worke with spirites, neither soothsayers: ye shall not seeke to them to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God.
\v 32 Thou shalt rise vp before the horehead, and honour the person of the old man, and dread thy God: I am the Lord.
\v 33 And if a stranger soiourne with thee in your lande, ye shall not vexe him.
\v 34 But the stranger that dwelleth with you, shalbe as one of your selues, and thou shalt loue him as thy selfe: for ye were strangers in the lad of Egypt: I am the Lord your God.
\v 35 Ye shall not doe vniustly in iudgement, in line, in weight, or in measure.
\v 36 You shall haue iust ballances, true weightes, a true Ephah, and a true Hin. I am the Lord your God, which haue brought you out of the lande of Egypt.
\v 37 Therefore shall ye obserue all mine ordinances, and all my iudgements, and doe them: I am the Lord.