\c 4
\p
\v 1 Nowe when the Lord knew, how the Pharises had heard, that Iesus made and baptized moe disciples then Iohn,
\v 2 (Though Iesus himselfe baptized not: but his disciples)
\v 3 Hee left Iudea, and departed againe into Galile.
\v 4 And he must needes goe through Samaria.
\v 5 Then came hee to a citie of Samaria called Sychar, neere vnto the possession that Iacob gaue to his sonne Ioseph.
\v 6 And there was Iacobs well. Iesus then wearied in the iourney, sate thus on the well: it was about the sixt houre.
\v 7 There came a woman of Samaria to drawe water. Iesus sayd vnto her, Giue me drinke.
\v 8 For his disciples were gone away into the citie, to buy meate.
\v 9 Then sayde the woman of Samaria vnto him, Howe is it, that thou being a Iewe, askest drinke of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Iewes meddle not with the Samaritans.
\v 10 Iesus answered and saide vnto her, If thou knewest that gift of God, and who it is that saieth to thee, Giue mee drinke, thou wouldest haue asked of him, and hee woulde haue giuen thee, water of life.
\v 11 The woman saide vnto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to drawe with, and the well is deepe: from whence then hast thou that water of life?
\v 12 Art thou greater then our father Iacob, which gaue vs the well, and hee himselfe dranke thereof, and his sonnes, and his cattell?
\v 13 Iesus answered, and said vnto her, Whosoeuer drinketh of this water, shall thirst againe:
\v 14 But whosoeuer drinketh of the water that I shall giue him, shall neuer be more a thirst: but the water that I shall giue him, shalbe in him a well of water, springing vp into euerlasting life.
\v 15 The woman said vnto him, Syr, giue me of that water, that I may not thirst, neither come hither to drawe.
\v 16 Iesus said vnto her, Go, call thine husband, and come hither.
\v 17 The woman answered, and saide, I haue no husband. Iesus said vnto her, Thou hast well said, I haue no husband.
\v 18 For thou hast had fiue husbands, and he whom thou nowe hast, is not thine husband: that saidest thou truely.
\v 19 The woman saide vnto him, Sir, I see that thou art a Prophet.
\v 20 Our fathers worshipped in this mountaine, and ye say, that in Ierusalem is the place where men ought to worship.
\v 21 Iesus saide vnto her, Woman, beleeue me, the houre commeth, when ye shall neither in this mountaine, nor at Hierusalem worship ye Father.
\v 22 Ye worship that which ye knowe not: we worship that which we knowe: for saluation is of the Iewes.
\v 23 But the houre commeth, and nowe is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit, and trueth: for the Father requireth euen such to worship him.
\v 24 God is a Spirite, and they that worship him, must worship him in spirit and trueth.
\v 25 The woman said vnto him, I knowe well that Messias shall come which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell vs all things.
\v 26 Iesus said vnto her, I am he, that speake vnto thee.
\v 27 And vpon that, came his disciples, and marueiled that he talked with a woman: yet no man said vnto him, What askest thou? or why talkest thou with her?
\v 28 The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the citie, and said to the men,
\v 29 Come, see a man which hath tolde me all things that euer I did: is not he that Christ?
\v 30 Then they went out of the citie, and came vnto him.
\v 31 In the meane while, the disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eate.
\v 32 But he said vnto them, I haue meate to eate that ye know not of.
\v 33 Then said ye disciples betweene themselues, Hath any man brought him meate?
\v 34 Iesus saide vnto them, My meate is that I may doe the will of him that sent me, and finish his worke.
\v 35 Say not ye, There are yet foure moneths, and then commeth haruest? Beholde, I say vnto you, Lift vp your eyes, and looke on the regions: for they are white alreadie vnto haruest.
\v 36 And he that reapeth, receiueth rewarde, and gathereth fruite vnto life eternall, that both he that soweth, and he that reapeth, might reioyce together.
\v 37 For herein is the saying true, that one soweth, and an other reapeth.
\v 38 I sent you to reape that, whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are entred into their labours.
\v 39 Nowe many of the Samaritans of that citie beleeued in him, for the saying of the woman which testified, He hath tolde me all things that euer I did.
\v 40 Then when the Samaritans were come vnto him, they besought him, that he woulde tarie with them: and he abode there two dayes.
\v 41 And many moe beleeued because of his owne word.
\v 42 And they said vnto the woman, Nowe we beleeue, not because of thy saying: for we haue heard him our selues, and knowe that this is in deede that Christ the Sauiour of the world.
\v 43 So two dayes after he departed thence, and went into Galile.
\v 44 For Iesus himselfe had testified, that a Prophet hath none honour in his owne countrey.
\v 45 Then when he was come into Galile, the Galileans receiued him, which had seene all the things that he did at Hierusalem at the feast: for they went also vnto the feast.
\v 46 And Iesus came againe into Cana a towne of Galile, where he had made of water, wine. And there was a certaine ruler, whose sonne was sicke at Capernaum.
\v 47 When he heard that Iesus was come out of Iudea into Galile, he went vnto him, and besought him that he would goe downe, and heale his sonne: for he was euen ready to die.
\v 48 Then saide Iesus vnto him, Except ye see signes and wonders, ye will not beleeue.
\v 49 The ruler said vnto him, Syr, goe downe before my sonne dye.
\v 50 Iesus said vnto him, Go thy way, thy sonne liueth: and the man beleeued the worde that Iesus had spoken vnto him, and went his way.
\v 51 And as he was nowe going downe, his seruants met him, saying, Thy sonne liueth.
\v 52 Then enquired he of them the houre when he began to amend. And they said vnto him, Yesterday the seuenth houre the feuer left him.
\v 53 Then the father knew, that it was the same houre in the which Iesus had said vnto him, Thy sonne liueth. And he beleeued, and all his houshold.
\v 54 This second miracle did Iesus againe, after he was come out of Iudea into Galile.