\c 22
\p
\v 1 And after these things God did proue Abraham, and said vnto him, Abraham. Who answered, Here am I.
\v 2 And he said, Take nowe thine onely sonne Izhak whom thou louest, and get thee vnto the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering vpon one of the mountaines, which I will shewe thee.
\v 3 Then Abraham rose vp early in the morning, and sadled his asse, and tooke two of his seruants with him, and Izhak his sonne, and cloue wood for the burnt offering, and rose vp and went to the place, which God had tolde him.
\v 4 Then the third day Abraham lift vp his eyes, and sawe the place afarre off,
\v 5 And said vnto his seruants, Abide you here with the asse: for I and the childe will go yonder and worship, and come againe vnto you.
\v 6 Then Abraham tooke the wood of the burnt offering, and layed it vpon Izhak his sonne, and he tooke the fire in his hand, and the knife: and they went both together.
\v 7 Then spake Izhak vnto Abraham his father, and said, My father. And he answered, Here am I, my sonne. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lambe for ye burnt offring?
\v 8 Then Abraham answered, My sonne, God will prouide him a lambe for a burnt offering: so they went both together.
\v 9 And when they came to the place which God had shewed him, Abraham builded an altar there, and couched ye wood, and bound Izhak his sonne and laid him on the altar vpon the wood.
\v 10 And Abraham stretching forth his hand, tooke the knife to kill his sonne.
\v 11 But the Angel of the Lord called vnto him from heauen, saying, Abraham, Abraham. And he answered, Here am I.
\v 12 Then he said, Lay not thine hand vpon the childe, neither doe any thing vnto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing for my sake thou hast not spared thine onely sonne.
\v 13 And Abraham lifting vp his eyes, looked: and behold, there was a ramme behind him caught by the hornes in a bush. then Abraham went and tooke the ramme, and offered him vp for a burnt offering in the steade of his sonne.
\v 14 And Abraham called the name of that place, Iehouah-ijreh. as it is said this day, In the mount will the Lord be seene.
\v 15 And the Angel of the Lord cryed vnto Abraham from heauen the second time,
\v 16 And saide, By my selfe haue I sworne (saith ye Lord) because thou hast done this thing, and hast not spared thine onely sonne,
\v 17 Therefore will I surely blesse thee, and will greatly multiplie thy seede, as the starres of the heauen, and as the sand which is vpon the sea shore, and thy seede shall possesse the gate of his enemies.
\v 18 And in thy seede shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voyce.
\v 19 Then turned Abraham againe vnto his seruants, and they rose vp and went together to Beer-sheba: and Abraham dwelt at Beer-sheba.
\v 20 And after these things one tolde Abraham, saying, Beholde Milcah, she hath also borne children vnto thy brother Nahor:
\v 21 To wit, Vz his eldest sonne, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
\v 22 And Chesed and Hazo, and Pildash, and Iidlaph, and Bethuel.
\v 23 And Bethuel begate Rebekah: these eight did Milcah beare to Nahor Abrahams brother.
\v 24 And his concubine called Reumah, she bare also Tebah, and Gahan, and Thahash and Maachah.