\c 9
\p
\v 1 And in the eight day Moses called Aaron and his sonnes, and the Elders of Israel:
\v 2 Then hee sayde vnto Aaron, Take thee a yong calfe for a sinne offring, and a ram for a burnt offring, both without blemish, and bring them before the Lord.
\v 3 And vnto the children of Israel thou shalt speake, saying, Take yee an hee goate for a sinne offring, and a calfe, and a lambe, both of a yeere olde, without blemish for a burnt offring:
\v 4 Also a bullock, and a ramme for peace offringes, to offer before the Lord, and a meate offring mingled with oyle: for to day the Lord will appeare vnto you.
\v 5 Then they brought that which Moses commanded before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and all the assembly drewe neere and stood before the Lord.
\v 6 (For Moses had sayde, This is the thing, which the Lord commanded that ye should do, and the glory of the Lord shall appeare vnto you)
\v 7 Then Moses sayd vnto Aaron, Draw neere to the Altar, and offer thy sinne offering, and thy burnt offring, and make an attonement for thee and for the people: offer also the offring of the people, and make an atonement for them, as the Lord hath commanded.
\v 8 Aaron therefore went vnto the Altar, and killed the calfe of the sinne offring, which was for himselfe.
\v 9 And the sonnes of Aaron brought ye blood vnto him, and he dipt his finger in the blood, and put it vpon the hornes of the Altar, and powred the rest of the blood at the foote of the Altar.
\v 10 But the fat and the kidneis and the kall of the liuer of the sinne offring, he burnt vpon the Altar, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 11 The flesh also and the hide hee burnt with fire without the hoste.
\v 12 After, he slewe the burnt offering, and Aarons sonnes brought vnto him the blood, which he sprinckled round about vpon the Altar.
\v 13 Also they brought the burnt offring vnto him with the pieces thereof, and the head, and he burnt them vpon the Altar.
\v 14 Likewise he did wash the inwardes and the legs, and burnt them vpon the burnt offring on the Altar.
\v 15 Then he offred the peoples offring, and tooke a goate, which was the sinne offring for the people, and slewe it: and offred it for sinne, as the first:
\v 16 So he offred the burnt offring, and prepared it, according to the maner.
\v 17 He presented also the meate offring, and filled his hand thereof, and beside the burnt sacrifice of the morning he burnt this vpon the Altar.
\v 18 He slewe also the bullock, and the ram for the peace offrings, that was for the people, and Arons sonnes brought vnto him the blood, which he sprinkled vpon the Altar round about,
\v 19 With the fat of the bullocke, and of the ram, the rumpe, and that which couereth the inwards and the kidneis, and the kall of the liuer.
\v 20 So they layed the fat vpon the breasts, and he burnt the fat vpon the Altar.
\v 21 But the breastes and the right shoulder Aaron shooke to and from before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
\v 22 So Aaron lift vp his hand toward the people, and blessed them, and came downe from offring of the sinne offring, and the burnt offring, and the peace offrings.
\v 23 After, Moses and Aaron went into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and came out, and blessed the people, and the glorie of the Lord appeared to all the people.
\v 24 And there came a fire out from the Lord and consumed vpon the Altar the burnt offring and the fatte: which when all the people sawe, they gaue thankes, and fell on their faces.