\c 3
\p
\v 1 Doe we begin to praise our selues againe? or neede we as some other, epistles of recommendation vnto you, or letters of recommendation from you?
\v 2 Yee are our epistle, written in our hearts, which is vnderstand, and read of all men,
\v 3 In that yee are manifest, to be the Epistle of Christ, ministred by vs, and written, not with yncke, but with the Spirite of the liuing God, not in tables of stone, but in fleshly tables of the heart.
\v 4 And such trust haue we through Christ to God:
\v 5 Not that we are sufficient of our selues, to thinke any thing, as of our selues: but our sufficiencie is of God,
\v 6 Who also hath made vs able ministers of the Newe testament, not of the letter, but of the Spirite: for the letter killeth, but the Spirite giueth life.
\v 7 If then the ministration of death written with letters and ingrauen in stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel coulde not beholde the face of Moses, for the glorie of his countenance (which glorie is done away.)
\v 8 Howe shall not the ministration of the Spirite be more glorious?
\v 9 For if the ministerie of condemnation was glorious, much more doeth the ministration of righteousnesse exceede in glorie.
\v 10 For euen that which was glorified, was not glorified in this point, that is, as touching the exceeding glorie.
\v 11 For if that which should be abolished, was glorious, much more shall that which remaineth, be glorious.
\v 12 Seeing then that we haue such trust, we vse great boldnesse of speach.
\v 13 And we are not as Moses, which put a vaile vpon his face, that the children of Israel should not looke vnto the ende of that which should be abolished.
\v 14 Therefore their mindes are hardened: for vntill this day remaineth the same couering vntaken away in the reading of the olde Testament, which vaile in Christ is put away.
\v 15 But euen vnto this day, whe Moses is read, the vaile is laid ouer their hearts.
\v 16 Neuertheles when their heart shall be turned to the Lord, the vaile shalbe taken away.
\v 17 Nowe the Lord is the Spirite, and where the Spirite of the Lord is, there is libertie.
\v 18 But we al behold as in a mirrour the glory of the Lord with open face, and are changed into the same image, from glorie to glorie, as by the Spirit of the Lord.