\c 12
\p
\v 1 Then the Lord spake to Moses and to Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
\v 2 This moneth shalbe vnto you the beginning of moneths: it shalbe to you the first moneth of the yere.
\v 3 Speake ye vnto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth of this moneth let euery man take vnto him a lambe, according to the house of the fathers, a lambe for an house.
\v 4 And if the housholde be too litle for the lambe, he shall take his neighbour, which is next vnto his house, according to the nomber of the persons: euery one of you, according to his eating shall make your count for the lambes,
\v 5 Your lambe shalbe without blemish, a male of a yeere olde: ye shall take it of the lambes, or of the kiddes.
\v 6 And yee shall keepe it vntill the fourteenth day of this moneth: then al the multitude of the Congregation of Israel shall kill it at euen.
\v 7 After, they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two postes, and on the vpper doore post of the houses where they shall eate it.
\v 8 And they shall eate the flesh the same night, roste with fire, and vnleauened bread: with sowre herbes they shall eate it.
\v 9 Eate not thereof rawe, boyled nor sodden in water, but rost with fire, both his head, his feete, and his purtenance.
\v 10 And ye shall reserue nothing of it vnto the morning: but that, which remaineth of it vnto the morowe, shall ye burne with fire.
\v 11 And thus shall yee eate it, Your loynes girded, your shoes on your feete, and your staues in your handes, and yee shall eate it in haste: for it is the Lords Passeouer.
\v 12 For I will passe through the lande of Egypt the same night, and will smite all the first borne in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and I will execute iudgement vpon all the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord.
\v 13 And the blood shalbe a token for you vpon the houses where ye are: so when I see the blood, I will passe ouer you, and the plague shall not be vpon you to destruction, when I smite the lande of Egypt.
\v 14 And this day shalbe vnto you a remembrance: and ye shall keepe it an holie feast vnto the Lord, throughout your generations: yee shall keepe it holie by an ordinance for euer.
\v 15 Seuen daies shall ye eat vnleauened bread, and in any case ye shall put away leauen the first day out of your houses: for whosoeuer eateth leauened bread from the first daie vntill the seuenth day, that person shalbe cut off from Israel.
\v 16 And in the first day shalbe an holie assemblie: also in the seuenth day shalbe an holy assemblie vnto you: no worke shalbe done in them, saue about that which euery man must eate: that onely may ye do.
\v 17 Ye shall keepe also the feast of vnleauened bread: for that same daye I will bring your armies out of the lande of Egypt: therefore ye shall obserue this day, throughout your posteritie, by an ordinance for euer.
\v 18 In the first moneth and the fourteenth day of the moneth at euen, yee shall eate vnleauened bread vnto the one and twentieth day of the moneth at euen.
\v 19 Seuen daies shall no leauen be founde in your houses: for whosoeuer eateth leauened bread, that person shalbe cut off from the Congregation of Israel: whether he bee a stranger, or borne in the land.
\v 20 Ye shall eate no leauened bread: but in all your habitations shall ye eate vnleauened bread.
\v 21 Then Moses called all the Elders of Israel, and saide vnto them, Choose out and take you for euerie of your housholdes a lambe, and kill the Passeouer.
\v 22 And take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basen, and strike the lintell, and the doore cheekes with the blood that is in the basen, and let none of you goe out at the doore of his house, vntill the morning.
\v 23 For the Lord will passe by to smite the Egyptians: and when he seeth the blood vpon the lintel and on the two doore cheekes, the Lord wil passe ouer the doore, and wil not suffer the destroyer to come into your houses to plague you.
\v 24 Therefore shall ye obserue this thing as an ordinance both for thee and thy sonnes for euer.
\v 25 And when ye shall come into the land, which the Lord will giue you as hee hath promised, then ye shall keepe this seruice.
\v 26 And when your children aske you, What seruice is this ye keepe?
\v 27 Then ye shall saye, It is the sacrifice of the Lordes Passeouer, which passed ouer the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and preserued our houses. Then the people bowed them selues, and worshipped.
\v 28 So the children of Israel went, and did as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron: so did they.
\v 29 Nowe at midnight, the Lord smote all the first borne in the lande of Egypt, from the first borne of Pharaoh that sate on his throne, vnto the first borne of the captiue that was in prison, and all the first borne of beastes.
\v 30 And Pharaoh rose vp in the night, he, and all his seruants and all the Egyptians: and there was a great crye in Egypt: for there was no house where there was not one dead.
\v 31 And hee called to Moses and to Aaron by night, and saide, Rise vp, get you out from among my people, both yee, and the children of Israel, and goe serue the Lord as ye haue sayde.
\v 32 Take also your sheepe and your cattell as yee haue sayde, and depart, and blesse me also.
\v 33 And the Egyptians did force the people, because they would send them out of the land in haste: for they said, We die all.
\v 34 Therfore the people tooke their dough before it was leauened, euen their dough bound in clothes vpon their shoulders.
\v 35 And the children of Israel did according to the saying of Moses, and they asked of ye Egyptians iewels of siluer and iewels of gold, and raiment.
\v 36 And the Lord gaue the people fauour in the sight of the Egyptians: and they graunted their request: so they spoyled the Egyptians.
\v 37 Then the children of Israel tooke their iourney from Rameses to Succoth about sixe hundreth thousand men of foote, beside children.
\v 38 And a great multitude of sundrie sortes of people went out with them, and sheepe, and beeues, and cattel in great abundance.
\v 39 And they baked the dough which they brought out of Egypt, and made vnleauened cakes: for it was not leauened, because they were thrust out of Egypt, neither coulde they tarie, nor yet prepare themselues vitailes.
\v 40 So the dwelling of the children of Israel, while they dwelled in Egypt, was foure hundreth and thirtie yeres.
\v 41 And when the foure hundreth and thirtie yeeres were expired, euen the selfe same day departed all the hostes of the Lord out of the land of Egypt.
\v 42 It is a night to be kept holie to the Lord, because he brought them out of the lande of Egypt: this is that night of the Lord, which all the children of Israel must keepe throughout their generations.
\v 43 Also the Lord said vnto Moses and Aaron, This is the Lawe of the Passeouer: no stranger shall eate thereof.
\v 44 But euerie seruant that is bought for money, when thou hast circumcised him, then shall he eat thereof.
\v 45 A stranger or an hyred seruant shall not eat thereof.
\v 46 In one house shall it bee eaten: thou shalt carie none of ye flesh out of the house, neither shall ye breake a bone thereof.
\v 47 All the Congregation of Israel shall obserue it.
\v 48 But if a stranger dwell with thee, and will obserue the Passeouer of the Lord, let him circumcise all the males, that belong vnto him, and then let him come and obserue it, and he shall be as one that is borne in the land: for none vncircumcised person shall eate thereof.
\v 49 One lawe shalbe to him that is borne in the land, and to the stranger that dwelleth among you.
\v 50 Then all the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron: so did they.
\v 51 And the selfe same day did the Lord bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.