\c 3
\p
\v 1 Moreouer, my brethren, reioyce in the Lord. It grieueth mee not to write the same things to you, and for you it is a sure thing.
\v 2 Beware of dogges: beware of euil workers: beware of the concision.
\v 3 For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirite, and reioyce in Christ Iesus, and haue no confidence in the flesh:
\v 4 Though I might also haue confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, much more I,
\v 5 Circumcised the eight day, of the kinred of Israel, of the tribe of Beniamin, an Ebrewe of the Ebrewes, by the Lawe a Pharise.
\v 6 Concerning zeale, I persecuted ye Church: touching the righteousnesse which is in the Law, I was vnrebukeable.
\v 7 But the thinges that were vantage vnto me, the same I counted losse for Christes sake.
\v 8 Yea, doubtlesse I thinke all thinges but losse for the excellent knowledge sake of Christ Iesus my Lord, for whome I haue counted all things losse, and doe iudge them to bee dongue, that I might winne Christ,
\v 9 And might bee founde in him, that is, not hauing mine owne righteousnesse, which is of the Lawe, but that which is through the faith of Christ, euen the righteousnesse which is of God through faith,
\v 10 That I may know him, and the vertue of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his afflictions, and be made conformable vnto his death,
\v 11 If by any meanes I might attaine vnto the resurrection of the dead:
\v 12 Not as though I had alreadie attained to it, either were alreadie perfect: but I follow, if that I may comprehend that for whose sake also I am comprehended of Christ Iesus.
\v 13 Brethren, I count not my selfe, that I haue attained to it, but one thing I doe: I forget that which is behinde, and endeuour my selfe vnto that which is before,
\v 14 And follow hard toward the marke, for the prise of the hie calling of God in Christ Iesus.
\v 15 Let vs therefore as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and if yee be otherwise minded, God shall reueile euen the same vnto you.
\v 16 Neuerthelesse, in that whereunto wee are come, let vs proceede by one rule, that wee may minde one thing.
\v 17 Brethren, bee followers of mee, and looke on them, which walke so, as yee haue vs for an ensample.
\v 18 For many walke, of whom I haue told you often, and nowe tell you weeping, that they are the enemies of the Crosse of Christ:
\v 19 Whose ende is damnation, whose God is their bellie, and whose glorie is to their shame, which minde earthly things.
\v 20 But our conuersation is in heauen, from whence also we looke for the Sauiour, euen the Lord Iesus Christ,
\v 21 Who shall change our vile bodie, that it may be fashioned like vnto his glorious body, according to the working, whereby hee is able euen to subdue all things vnto him selfe.